<p> The Power of OneAlthough it is a tiny number, one can make a very powerful impact both on your top line sales and bottom line profits. One extra sale every day, week or month can make a significant impact on your sales by the end of the year. Kelly Robertson explains how to get “the power of one” working for you.
<p> How to Create a Powerful Sales PresentationThe quality of your sales presentation will often determine whether a prospect buys from you or one of your competitors. So how do you give a presentation that’s compelling enough to motivate people to make that buying decision? These seven presentation tips from Kelley Robertson will show you how to create a sales presentation that will make the sale.
<p> "Write A Sales Letter That Will Wow Them"Sales letters can be extremely powerful; marketing studies show that they outperform other direct mail formats such as brochures and postcards. Here’s how to write a sales letter that will wow your readers and persuade them to buy your product or service.
<p> "Increasing Sales in Existing Markets"Increasing your sales in your existing market is a business growth strategy that any small business can use and is one of the easiest growth strategies to implement. Use these tips to start increasing your sales.
<p> "6 Sure Ways to Increase Sales"Shifting your sales focus to enticing your current customers can make increasing your sales easier – and best of all, build the customer loyalty that results in repeat sales. Learn how with these six sure ways to increase sales.
<p> "The Top 7 Sales Blunders"Even the most seasoned sales professional makes mistakes from time to time. If you avoid these seven common sales mistakes, says Kelley Robertson, you’ll increase the likelihood of closing the sale.
<p> "Base Your Advertising On The Sales Benefits"If you're the only product/service provider in a consumer's time of need, you may get a sale based on that even if you haven't established firm trust. Dennis S. Vogel explains how to match your sales pitch to your prospect's needs.
<p> Breakeven AnalysisWhat sales volume do you need before your business starts making a profit? Here's how to conduct a breakeven analysis.
<p> "Carry Other People's Business Cards"Other people's business cards can serve as the entree to making a contact, which in turn can lead to new sales leads. Here's an example of how to use this sales technique from your About.com Guide.
<p> "Cold Calling Tips"Does the thought of cold calling leave you cold? Cold calling is an effective sales tactic if it's done properly. These cold calling tips will help you make cold calling a more successful experience.
<p> "Creating An Effective Sales and Marketing Strategy"Improve your sales and marketing capabilities by breaking "sales and marketing" into discrete, manageable elements. Terry Elliott lays out the elements of sales and marketing you need to analyze to set up an effective sales strategy.
<p> "Creating Sales Incentive Program That Work"Have your previous sales incentive programs been a disappointment to you and your salespeople? Paul Shearstone explains how to create an incentive program that will drive your sales force to new levels of achievement.
<p> "Get Ready To Sell"Selling is all about confidence! Here's how to boost your confidence by using a pump-you-up routine that includes a session of self-praise (Week 5 of the Small Business Success Program).
<p> "How To Find And Sell To Your Target Market"Before you can sell, you have to figure out who you're going to sell to. Guest columnist Marilyn Guille explains how to define your target market and zero in on that market by using market segmentation.
<p> "3 Methods Of Sales Forecasting"Sales forecasting is especially difficult when you don’t have any previous sales history to guide you, as is the case when you’re working on preparing cash flow projections as part of writing a business plan. Terry Elliott provides a detailed explanation of how to use three methods of sales forecasting.
<p> "Qualifying - The Critical Sales Skill"Kelley Robertson explains how to avoid the common mistakes many sales people make making the pitch and how to effectively qualify your sales prospects. From About.
<p> "Selling Definition"What's selling all about? Here's a definition of selling and selling skills resources for small business owners.
<p> "5 Things More Important Than WHAT You're Selling"So much attention is paid to WHAT you're selling, the HOW you sell it often takes a backseat. Yet it's the quality of your HOW that determines whether the sale is made or lost. Dr. Lynella Grant explains how to increase your sales by focusing on how you sell and giving customers what they want.
<p> "5 Ways To Negotiate More Effectively"Negotiation is an important sales skill. Guest columnist Kelley Robertson presents five strategies that you can use to improve your negotiation skills and drive dollars to your bottom line.
