<h> Reports Available through Faculty Roster
<h> U.S. Medical School Faculty
<p> The annual report U.S. Medical School Faculty is a set of 20 tables
that answer common questions about the national distribution of full-time
faculty. The information is displayed by specialty, department, rank,
degree, sex, and race/hispanic origin. (Data on part-time faculty, volunteer,
and emeritus faculty are excluded.)
<p> From 1986-1997, printed copies of U.S. Medical School Faculty
were distributed to medical school deans, Faculty Roster representatives,
and other selected constituents. The report is now published online only
and is produced using a database snapshot from December 31. Prior to December
31, 1997, the publication was based on a June 30 database snapshot.
<p> Note that the AAMC Faculty Roster does not necessarily reflect official
faculty counts. As a result, the figures in these tables should be viewed
and used with care. While the proportion of faculty across key variables
may be reasonably accurate, the number of faculty may not be. For the
official faculty figures, please visit the Medical School Profile System
at http://services.aamc.org/mspsreports. Although the Medical School Profile
System reflects official faculty counts that institutions provide as part
of their accreditation process, the Medical School Profile System does
not always provide the kind of detail that the Faculty Roster provides.
<h> Faculty Roster Benchmark Reports
<p> The Faculty Roster
Benchmark Reports application is an interactive reporting tool utilizing
Faculty Roster data. Users have the ability to generate reports in a variety
of ways. For example, users can generate one of the Template Reports and
tweak it to view the data according to their own criteria, including creating
comparison groups of institutions. Users can also create their own Custom
Reports, choosing from a large number of permutations of Faculty Roster
fields.
<h> Special Reports
<p> Faculty Roster staff are able to conduct special reports for individuals
whose needs are not met from existing reports. Special reports may vary
from simple analyses requiring minimal programming to complicated analyses
requiring significant time and effort. The charge for a special report
depends on the length of time to complete the analysis, with three hours
as the typical length of time. For additional information, contact Hershel
Alexander, halexander@aamc.org.
