<p> AppraiserValues.com has a network of geographically located licensed and certified California residential and commercial appraisers. Our California appraisers include Members of the Appraisal Institute Warren K. Hoppke, SRPA and Robert Nord, MAI, CCIM, ASA and other Appraisal Institute and Society members. Each of our home &amp; commercial appraisers has individual geographical expertise and are available for a variety of real estate appraisal assignments including residential, commercial, industrial, and special use property types. We believe residential and commercial appraisals prepared or supervised by a Member of the Appraisal Institute are among the highest quality in the industry. Additionally, our home appraisers are here to serve your home appraisal needs from luxury homes to ranch and ocean front real estate.
<p> Rapid turn times, high quality track record, electronic ordering and delivery (email), and on-line status reporting. For a list of appraiser coverage by county and by zip code click here: 92101, 92045, 92660 Appraiser,ca Our real estate commercial appraisers provide high quality professional residential &amp; commercial appraisal services on Southern California real estate. When you need a professional home appraisal and a commercial appraiser specialist, we are here to help.
<p> FREE COMP SEARCH Click here: SEARCH COMPARABLES(By clicking on this link you agree to the following terms &amp; conditions and you are now leaving our web site. Any information obtained from the use of this link is not an appraisal, may not be accurate, and is not provided by our company. An appraisal of a property requires determination of scope of work, comp research &amp; analysis, and a written unbiased opinion of value by a licensed or certified appraiser. Any information or opinion obtained by the use of this link is the sole responsibility of that web site and the user of the web site and is not affiliated or endorsed by AppraiserValues.com. We may not agree with the conclusions you reach from this web site or any other web site. The user has read and agrees to USPAP Advisory AO-19. )FREE SEARCH MLS LISTINGS - YOUR LOCAL AREA: SEARCH MLSSEARCH LOS ANGELES COUNTY MLS AS A GUEST AT: CLICK HERESEARCH SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA VACANT LAND FOR SALE: CLICK HERESEARCH COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES FREE: SEARCH COMMERCIALSOCIETY OF INDUSTRIAL &amp; OFFICE REALTORSPROPERTIES FOR SALE/LEASESEARCH WORLDWIDE LUXURY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES:CLICK HERESEARCH OFFSHORE RESIDENTIAL &amp; COMMERCIAL: CLICK HEREClick here TO SEARCH LUXURY DESTINATION HOTELSClick here VILLA IN COSTA RICA--Click here KANACEA ISLAND
<p> Additionally, under the Real Estate Directory section of this site, lenders and consumers can get quick information sources by county for both Southern California and nationwide on finding a home, commercial REO foreclosures, searching MLS home and commercial real estate appraisal data bases, referrals on finding home inspectors, finding a residential or commercial contractor, how to choose a commercial property inspector, 10 things you need to look for when buying a luxury home or ranch estate, residential income property or commercial real estate, cost vs. value of remodeling projects, 10 things you need to know before starting any residential or commercial real estate remodeling project. You can also click on our site maplocated along the left hand side of this site to find more information on Southern California home, residential, and commercial real estate.
<p> We will be constantly adding additional content like: How to choose a mortgage lender, how to search foreclosures, how to choose a licensed commercial contractor or home builder, how to choose the right home or commercial real estate broker, how to challenge your property assessed value. The more real estate knowledge you have, the better you can protect yourself and save money when buying or selling your California real estate. Please check back frequently, as we are always adding content.
<p> AppraiserValues.com is one of the most experience residential and commercial appraisal firms in Southern California. Each home and commercial real estate appraisal is signed by a state licensed or state certified residential or commercial appraiser. Our California real estate appraisal firm provides qualified residential and commercial appraisers and prepares real estate appraisal reports for all of Southern California including Orange County, Los Angeles County, San Diego County, Riverside County, and San Bernardino Counties. Our home and commercial appraisal services include real estate appraisers for expert testimony, home and commercial appraisals for Trusts, Divorce, Estates, Probate, Taxation Issues, PMI Removal, and complete home and commercial real estate appraisal services. We utilize a network of residential and commercial appraisers that have geographical expertise who are licensed or certified home and commercial appraisers and some of whom who hold the highest appraisal designations in the industry. AppraiserValues.com is looking for the best and brightest home and commercial appraisers in the industry. Successful candidates must have an MAI appraisal designation or advanced MAI candidacy and hold a California Certified General Appraiser License. If you qualify, please email your resume and references to us by clicking on contact us at the top of our web site.
<p> As the leading provider of home appraisal, residential income property appraisals, and commercial appraisal our firm has specialized in Orange County, Los Angeles County, Riverside County, San Diego County, San Bernardino County, Ventura County, Santa Barbara County and all of Southern California real estate since 1976. We are home appraisers and commercial appraisal specialists. Our firm specializes in custom homes, ranch estates, luxury home estate appraisals, ocean front homes, large acreage estates, vacant land, proposed residential custom home construction, vacation home properties, and large custom estates. In addition to residential home appraisals and luxury home estates, our firm can prepare a commercial appraisal on numerous property types and special use real estate including apartment complexes, industrial warehouse, R&amp;D Industrial or office, office buildings, mixed use retail commercial, shopping centers, retail strip commercial, mixed use commercial, industrial manufacturing facilities, mini-storage properties, motels, hotels, mini-storage facilities, general commercial buildings and other special use commercial appraisal property types.
<p> Knowledgable expert home, residential, and commercial appraisers know when home and commercial real estate values will rise or declined because our home, apartment, industrial, and commercial appraisers study real estate market conditions. Our home and commercial real estate appraisers have both the knowledge and expertise to help clients estimate home values or the value of their residential income property or commercial property. We know residential and commercial property values because we have performed home appraisal and commercial appraisals in Southern California for over 30 years.
<p> When choosing a california appraiser you want to select the best qualified residential or commercial appraisers to meet your appraisal needs. In order to determine the best qualified commercial appraiser the first step is to review the commercial appraisers qualifications. Generally, each highly qualified California commercial appraiser will list his or her appraisal qualifications on their web site. If you do not find a resume then you should move on to another web site that provides the appraiser qualifications. After you have located the qualifications you then proceed to look down the resume. What your looking for is specialized commercial appraisal education and experience. First your looking for any college degree's specializing in commercial real estate or real estate finance. Then you would look for individual commercial appraisal classes in the type of property you need to have appraised. Next you want to look to see if they maintain membership in professional California appraisal or commercial real estate organizations such as the Appraisal Institute, American Society of Appraisers, Certified Commercial Investment Member CCIM, that require the home or commercial appraiser to demonstrate at lease 100 hours of continuing education every 5 years and maintain appraisal skills and high ethical standards. After that, you should look for California appraisal experience in the type of property or properties you need to have appraised such as a home, apartment, industrial building, shopping center, office building, vacant land, custom home, and overall general commercial appraisal experience.
<p> A home appraisal by a certified California real estate appraisers can help determine if PMI Private Mortgage Insurance can be removed. With an appraisal report signed by a certified California appraiser, the mortgage company will most oftenremove PMI private mortgage insurance with little trouble. Hiring a California appraiser to find out if your property qualifies is the first step in removing PMI. Just email your property address to us and our home appraiser provide your with a formula to calculate if you qualify for removal of PMI. in any event, having a home appraisal one of the first steps in removing PMI.
<p> Our home and commercial real estate appraisers provide the best real estate appraisal services throughout Orange Countyand Southern California. Below is a list of cities each California appraiser in our firm covers in Orange County and other counties. One of our appraisers is ready to serve your needs for Los Angeles County California, Riverside County California, San Diego County California, Ventura County, Santa Barbara County, and San Bernardino County.Residential and commercial review appraisal services. Our firm provides highly experienced geographically located residential and commercial review appraisers throughout California for technical compliance with the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice (USPAP). Many technical appraisal issues confront banks and lenders today and require the skill of a highly experienced residential or commercial review appraiser. For example, if zoning issues are not properly addressed in an appraisal, it can affect the outcome of the highest and best use of the subject property and therefore the selection of the comparable sales. As a result, if the comparable sales utilized in the report do not have a similar highest and best use, the opinion of market value of the subject property may not be credible.
<p> Defining the appraisal process. The home &amp; commercial appraisal process starts with the definition of the problem by California appraisers. One of the first steps in the residential or commercial appraisal process is the identification of the client, the intended use and users, and the purpose of the appraisal. Then the commercial appraiser would want to know the property characteristics including its location and property rights including leased fee, leasehold, or fee simple. In addition, any extraordinary assumptions and or hypothetical conditions would further define the appraisal problem. Many times this will be enough information to indicate the type of commercial appraisal report option California appraisers can use.
<p> After the commercial appraisal problem has been defined the residential or commercial appraiser can then determine a cursory scope of work and quote a fee. After the client accepts the fee and the type of report option the commercial appraisal process can then proceed to the next step.
<p> In order to describe the scope of work in a home or commercial appraisal assignment, the California appraiser must first identify any extraordinary assumptions and or hypothetical conditions. Extraordinary assumptions presume uncertain information to be factual. If found to be false, could alter the California appraisers opinion of value. Hypothetical conditions are contrary to what exists, but the conditions are asserted by commercial appraisers for purposes of analysis.
<p> The next step is defining the scope of work. This would be the amount of work and specific type of information and data researched and the type of analysis and methodologies applied in a home or commercial appraisal. The scope of work should indicate what was done and what was not done. Following this step the California appraiser would gather all the data.
<p> CCIM Institute Commercial Real Estate -A Certified Commercial Investment Member (CCIM) is a recognized expert in the disciplines of commercial and investment real estate. A CCIM is an invaluable resource to the commercial real estate owner, investor, and user, and is among an elite corps of 7,500 professionals across North America who hold the CCIM designation. Many commercial appraisers and Appraisal Institute Members hold duel designations in both organizations. The CCIM Institute has combined chapters the cover Orange County, Los Angeles County, San Diego County, Riverside County, San Bernardino County, Ventura County, and Santa Barbara County.
<p> National Association of Industrial &amp; Office Properties - NAIOP-The National Association of Industrial and Office Properties (NAIOP) is the nation's leading trade association for developers, owners, investors, asset managers and other professionals in industrial, office and mixed-use commercial real estate. The NAIOP has combined chapters SoCal Chapter serving Los Angeles County and Orange County, San Diego Chapter serving San Diego County, and the Inland Empire Chapter serving Riverside and San Bernardino County.
<p> International Council of Shopping Centers - ICSC Founded in 1957, the International Council of Shopping Centers (ICSC) is the global trade association of the commercial real estate shopping center industry. Its 61,000 members in the U.S., Canada and more than 80 other countries include shopping center owners, developers, managers, marketing specialists, investors, lenders, retailers and other professionals. Some of the principal aims of ICSC are promoting the role of a shopping center in the marketing of consumer goods and services. Encourage's research into commercial real estate, architecture and design of a shopping center, and the development of improved management and maintenance methods.
<p> National Association of of Church Design Builders - The National Association of Church Design Builders, NACDB was established to create a nationwide association of firms committed to the practical application of biblical values resulting in their excellence as specialists in commercial real estate consulting, designing and building church facilities that focus on the ministry needs and styles of the churches they serve.
<p> The National Apartment Association (NAA) is America's leading advocate for quality rental housing. NAA's mission is to serve the interests of multifamily housing owners, managers, developers and suppliers and maintain a high level of professionalism in the multifamily housing industry to better serve the rental housing needs of the public. NAA is a federation of 192 state and local affiliates, comprised of more than 51,000 multifamily housing and commercial real estate companies representing more than 6.1 million apartment properties throughout the United States and Canada.
<p> Appraisal Institute Southern California Chapter - Appraisal Institute has been home to some of the residential and commercial appraisal profession's leading practitioners, educators and authors since its founding in 1933. Members currently number over 1,200, residing or practicing within the Chapter's boundaries which stretch from the north Santa Barbara County line to the south Orange County line, and includes Los Angeles County, San Bernardino County, Riverside County, Ventura County and to the Arizona/Nevada borders. Members exhibit a higher level of competence than required of residential and commercial appraisers who are solely licensed or certified with the State of California, and commit to a higher code of ethics.
<p> San Diego Chapter - Appraisal Institute - The San Diego Chapter is one of the larger chapters in the United States, and offers a wide range of nationally sponsored courses and seminars, as well as seminars oriented to the San Diego region. Members who hold the MAI, SRA, SRPA, SREA, or RM designations have met rigorous requirements relating to education, testing, experience, and demonstration of knowledge, understanding and ability. Today and throughout its 70+ year history, the Appraisal Institute has been recognized as the leading organization for professional residential and commercial real estate appraisers. Highly knowledgeable San Diego commercial appraisers and numerous residential appraisers who are dedicated to excellence and capable of producing high quality appraisals.
<p> Appraisal Institute - Attorneys, Accountants, and Bankers Resources - provides resources and a list of residential and commercial appraiser designated members of the Appraisal Institute. Members holding the MAI, SRPA or SRA have advanced knowledge, years of proven experience, and a commitment to strict ethics and standards. Expert residential and commercial appraisals by members who provide valuation for accounting and financial reporting. Designated members who provide litigation services as part of their practice can serve as strong expert witnesses, with the ability to address matters in which real estate valuation plays a central role in residential and commercial appraisal including eminent domain and zoning, condemnation, dvorce, probate, corporate valuations, property tax, bankruptcy, title insurance
<p> The links provided on this web site are not affiliated or associated in any way with AppraiserValues.com and are provided only for informational purposes. The user of this site agrees that once they click on a link they are no longer on AppraiserValues.com web site. AppraiserValues.com may not agree with any of the content of any of the links on this web site. Again, they are provided only for informational purposes. Any valuations as a result of a link to any AVM sites from AppraiserValues.com is not an appraisal and is not considered a valuation of any kind. An appraisal requires a formal request in writing and a complete analysis of the subject property and comparable sales by a licensed or certified home appraiser or commercial real estate appraiser. Use of a link to an AVM site ABC or Zillow is not considered an appraisal or valuation by AppraiserValues.com or any licensed or certified home appraiser or commercial appraiser affiliated with AppraiserValues.com.
