<p> If eyes are the window to the soul then the skin around them is the true confession of age, stress, eating habits, and more. This unfortunate fact is the result of the eye's minimal support structure. "The tissue around the eye is the shallowest tissue on the face. And because it does not have oil glands or a fatty layer, it is more susceptible to wrinkles and the effects of aging," says Michelle Ribadeneira, a former Estee Lauder beauty advisor.
<p> Skin care professionals agree that products specifically created for the eyes are the only way to treat the delicate area. Says Ribadeneira, "Traditional face products are too heavy for the eye, as a result they clog pores and create bags and wrinkles."
<p> Age Defying Revitalizing Eye Gel, Oil of Olay $9.29 for 0.5 oz (LINK)
Fragrance and color-free, this classic eye gel is designed to reduce the look of fine lines and wrinkles around the eyes utilizing Pro-Vitamin B5, witch hazel and cucumber extract.
<p> Eye Soother, ShisedioAbout $50 for 0.49 oz at Dillards, Robinsons and Macy's
This refreshing gel is designed to repair delicate eye skin with Vitamin E, a botanical extract, and pearl pigments. It can also be used over makeup.
<p> Evolutive Eye Cream, Pevonia $43 for 0.7 oz at Centre For Well Being (LINK)
With a plethora goodies such as Vitamins A, E, B, and D, Hyaluronic Acid and Vitamin C, this cream smoothes fine lines with a frosting-on-top bonus: UV protection.
<p> Low on cash or looking for a natural solution? Try this classic remedy: After storing two half-inch slices of cucumber in your refrigerator for about an hour, lay down and place slices on closed eye lids. Rest for at least 15 minutes (word has it playing Enya in the background always helps) and viola! dark circles and puffiness are gone.
<p> Trade Secrets
Dab a spot of vanilla eye shadow under the arch of your brow - it will open up the eyes and make your eyes look less tired.Apply Preparation H under the eyes and wrinkles. It'll decrease puffiness and smooth lines (temporarily).
<p> A slew of eye care solutions are available, and they generally come in gels and creams. While gels do not pack as much moisturizing power as creams, they're a better choice for some. "People with oily skin, sensitive skin or acne should look for an eye gel," says Christina Cusumeno, aesthetician and skin care specialist for Faline's Skin Boutique in Scottsdale.
<p> What to buy
Cusumeno suggests products with chamomile for tired, puffy eyes and products with kojic (a plant derived acid) to relieve dark circles or create lightning and brightening. But she too adds a second important warning: Stay clear of products containing coal-tar colors (listed as FD &amp; C or D &amp; C on the label); this ingredient is prohibited by the Food and Drug Administration, in large part because it can lead to blindness.
<p> Double dippers beware
Once the perfect eye care product is found, learn to apply it correctly for optimal benefits. The first rule, according to Ribadeneira, is to use the product every morning and night. "Just like a diet, if you only eat well and exercise occasionally, results won't come." With consistent care, Ribadeneira says, you can expect to see changes within six to nine weeks.
<p> The eye area is high in bacteria, making sanitary application vital as well. Pop the top off a Q-tip, dab a pin-prick amount on the applicator and pat lightly around the lower eye area (and sometimes the lips but never the lids) from corner to corner in a half-moon shape. "Some products come with spatulas, but I prefer disposable Q-tips because they don't tempt double-dipping," says Ribadeneira.
