<p> Search or refer to our many
directories and other content for 25,000+ resources
to support business site selection decisions in the USA and worldwide.
This website has attracted over 1
million visits in the 3 years since it was launched.
Just ask us
for free help reflecting over 15 years of experience in this niche and
thousands of contacts.
<p> Our independent research and referral work is free for
executives who are facing business expansion decisions because we are supported by leading professionals who can deliver
valuable services to more executives than they might reach through their own
professional networking activities, events, and exclusive marketing efforts.
<p> We can also perform custom market research projects.
We welcome suggestions, support for our work, and relevant
reciprocal links.
<p> Our goal is to make it easier for executives and their advisors to plan and
implement their business expansion projects to achieve
their strategic and ROI goals faster and better.
<p> We
deliver well-qualified introductions to the professionals and information
resources they need at the time, reflecting the research and "lessons
learned" from many other projects..
<p> We personally introduce
executives for free to valuable local market knowledge and professional
contacts as an independent global referral service (like a concierge in this
niche) through market research and the development of working relationships with
:
<p> Top executives facing strategic choices and
capital investment decisions about
where they will do business : where to establish, acquire, expand, move or
restructure their operations or alliances as markets and plans change.
<p> Professional service providers who assist
executives with capital
investment project plans in North America, Europe, Asia or worldwide.
These may be local specialists or global experts in foreign direct
investment (FDI) projects worldwide.
<p> We also perform US
advertising sales work for fDi - Foreign Direct Investment magazine,
published by the Financial Times group.
<p> A 2007 North
American Location Guide will be published with the February 2007 issue and featured
online throughout 2007 for quick reference. This supplement will also
be distributed at MIPIM 2007. It will become part of the new fDi Atlas guide to global business
locations. Contact us for more information.
<p> fDi : Foreign Direct Investment magazine by FT Business (The
Financial Times group) is the leading global publication focusing on foreign
direct investment - including investment into North America from other
regions of the world, and vice versa. That includes cross-border
competition among US states and Canadian provinces.
<p> It reaches "C-level" executives and professionals in North America
(40%),
Europe (40%), and Asia (20%) who are responsible for corporate development strategies,
organizational change, and capital investment project location decisions
worldwide. 85% of readers are CEO's or CFO's. 80% are at large
companies (&gt;500 employees).
<p> The fDi website attract 30,000+ visits
per month as a very targeted publication for top executives. We
attract 50,000+ visitors per month, so together we should reach over 1
million in 2007.
<p> You can also search this
website for over 25,000 relevant research sources in this niche market,
including content which highlights national, regional, state, and
local economic development organizations and professional service
providers. Let us help you to find what you
are seeking.
<p> This Google site search tool is available by the Search button
at the top of each page. Other custom search features are
provided through
www.OnTheShortList.com to make it easy
to selectively search many other relevant sites. The
directory pages on this website keep related
content together so that it can be browsed quickly and easily (unlike
repeated database form queries). GUIDE content such as
Service Profiles,
Area Profiles and
Area Surveys are
executive summary presentations to highlight the benefits of particular
business locations or professional services. They may link
to other websites about a location or service, and provide direct links to
information of common interest to our professional contacts.
<p> Try the
site search feature above, or our Directories of economic development
agencies and other resources. This site
provides executive summary content, website links, and contacts for over 25,000
business locations, service providers, and other relevant resources worldwide. There are
also
unique custom search features
at www.OnTheShortList.com
for business location research through the contents of this website and many other
resources.
<p> State economic development professionals who
are responsible for attracting business investment and providing site
selection assistance to executives and their consultants were invited in
April 2006 to provide an informative article on this simple topic : "Why
should a business invest in your state?"
<p> The article content and size
was entirely discretionary to share their point of view as a free service to
our 500,000+ visitors in 2006.
<p> We publish their
"Point of View" articles here for convenient reference by executives.
Other replies will be published once they are received from the remaining
state officials.
<p> "Point of View" articles were contributed by many
state economic development officials :
<p> Were you at the BIO 2006 conference in Chicago, or
will you be at other events where we could meet? We attend various trade shows and
professional events each year for networking purposes.
<p> Contact us
(TEL 847-304-4655) if you would like to meet to introduce ourselves.
<p> Our Event Recall
feature makes it easy to discover which areas are promoting themselves to
target industries through events such as trade shows. Our biotech directory is one example.
<p> There is also an Ad Recall
feature to highlight areas which are known to advertise, such as to easily
find their ads, websites, and contacts through search tools. A new Ad
Recall feature highlights
advertisers in fDi magazine.
<p> Newsletter - October
2005 (.pdf) Tips on using Google for business location selection
searches, with information about 2005 progress and our 2006 marketing plans.
<p> We expect 550,000+ visitors in 2006 to take advantage of the
extensive
information we share about economic development agencies and professional services.
That is up 175%+ from 200,000
visits in 2004 - the year when we launched this website.
See our daily visit or
monthly visit graphs and
regional analysis. After only 3 years, our visit levels already
exceed most of the specialty magazines in this market even though they have
been in circulation for 20 - 50 years.
<p> This is a personal service
for executives and advisors - not just website
content and links. Tell us what you need to find for your
project, and we will help you in confidence.
<p> Although we make it easy to find thousands of useful
resources worldwide through this website, we primarily share market
knowledge personally in response to specific requests from executives about
their interests, such as well-qualified referrals.
<p> Please
contact us to discuss how our work could support your interests.
<p> We apply our research capabilities and extensive networks of
contacts and working relationships beyond the extensive published content of
this website. We are also experimenting with Google Groups as another way to openly
share market knowledge.
<p> Virus warning :
Hackers continue to spoof our published e-mail address or use fictitious
addresses with our domain name as they send out spam or infected messages.
Messages which may appear to be from us do not actually come from any of our
systems. Please refer to our latest information about known attacks of
this nature.
<p> Our actual outbound e-mails to our contacts are sent from an
unpublished address, and are very specific in their subject lines about the
content. They rarely have any file attachments unless the recipient
knows us well and is expecting to receive the file per prior correspondence.
<p> The new website includes some unique
search features, such as those highlighted through links below (Area Search,
USA Search, CRE Search, etc.). These make it easy for executives and
their advisors to selectively
search relevant websites for additional details beyond the executive summary content
and links which we provide.
<p> Congratulations to 2006 Nobel Peace
Prize Laureate Muhammad Yunus and the Grameen Bank he founded to promote
local economic development and alleviate poverty through microcredit
programs.
<p> These enabled small groups of poor people in Bangladesh to
access unsecured loans in very small amounts for their own self-help
business efforts which would not be possible through the traditional bank
loan processes. This made it possible for many poor people to find
their own path out of poverty through their work and savings, rather than
rely on high-cost sources of capital or continuous government aid, social
programs, or charity. This development model has been repeated
elsewhere as an effective approach to poverty reduction challenges, and
adopted by various non-profit charitable organizations as a way to leverage
the economic impact of their limited resources.
<p> The Nobel Lecture by the winner, typically in December,
should be a very interesting presentation, as was the
2004 Lecture when Prof. Wangari
Muta Maathai of Kenya won it for her Green Belt Movement's contributions to sustainable development,
democracy and peace..
<p> One of the interesting concepts promoted by Muhammad Yunus
and others
is the idea of "non-loss" companies with a clear social purpose as their
main objective. In short, they are managed like for-profit business
ventures, but are not managed for profit maximization, but rather to
maximize the desired social impact of their work.
<p> This differs from the typical nature of "non profit"
organizations, which may similarly focus on trying to achieve good social
outcomes, but perhaps more from the perspective of raising and distributing
money or other benefits as charity rather than by managing the process for
demonstrable results as in a business venture.
<p> In other words, a non-profit may measure activity (how
much it has given away and to how many) rather than results (what has been
changed to achieve sustainable social or economic progress beyond immediate
crisis-response). This concept of business-like social ventures has
started to catch on with philanthropic business leaders who want to achieve
lasting results, as reflected in some of the resources listed in our
Humanitarian /
Philanthropy directory.
<p> Tip : See
Display if the full width of any page does not appear in your
browser, or if you are having trouble with a pop-up blocker when you use
navigational links or buttons. Many links open new windows to make it easy to explore interests,
compare content, and then come back to the original page by just
closing the window. There are no pop-up ads.
<p> This website was designed for high resolution
display settings (1280x1024 or higher) as typically used by the executives
and professionals we serve, instead of older display standards. More
scrolling may be required at lower resolution settings. We regret any
inconvenience to users of lower resolution display settings who may need to
scroll more than we anticipated.
