<p> Corporate Governance looks at the institutional and policy framework for corporations - from their very beginnings, in entrepreneurship, through their governance structures, company law, privatisation, to market exit and insolvency. The integrity of corporations, financial institutions and markets is particularly central to the health of our economies and their stability. The OECD Steering Group on Corporate Governance co-ordinates and guides the Organisation's work on corporate governance.
<p> Companies can boost their stock market valuations and lower their cost of capital through improved reporting of intellectual assets and value creation strategies that overcome the limits of accounting standards, according to a report by the OECD. While there is an important role for governments and standard setters in underpinning such improvements, the OECD cautions against rigid standards in this complex and evolving area.
<p> "The Latin American Roundtable Companies Circle 2nd Edition", featuring the experience of 13 leading Latin American companies, was launched on the occasion of the 4th meeting of the Latin American Roundtable Companies Circle , held on November 22, 2006 in São Paulo, Brazil. The meeting also advanced work on the development of a Companies Circle practical guide to implementation of good corporate governance.
<p> Corporate governance is improving in Turkey but some key issues, including the potential for unfair treatment of minority shareholders, need to be tackled if Turkish firms are to take full advantage of opportunities to grow in coming years, according to a new OECD report.
<p> Adhering governments are committed to promoting the Guidelines and to making them influential among companies operating in or from their territories. This report describes what governments have done improve the effectiveness, transparency and timeliness of their implementation over the June 2005-June 2006 period and addresses considerations for future action.
<p> This publication provides policy-makers, board members, managers, equity providers, creditors and others an overview of the issues to be addressed in establishing good corporate governance of non-listed companies.
<p> A new policy brief report issued by the Task Force of the Asian Roundtable on Corporate Governance sets out consensus objectives and recommendations for banks, regulators and policy-makers to strengthen corporate governance of banks in the region.
<p> Rapidly rising attention to the quality of governance in developing countries is driving explosive growth in the use of governance “indicators” by international investors, donors of official development assistance, development analysts and academics.
<p> This seminar brought together banking regulators and members of the Task Force of the Asian Roundtable on Corporate Governance to discuss and advance on recommendations for better governance of banks in the region. The Financial Stability Institute of the Bank for International Settlements co-organised the meeting with the OECD.
<p> Multinational enterprises investing in countries characterised by weak or non-existent government need to take special care in handling a range of risks and ethical dilemmas not usually encountered in countries with stronger governance arrangements. A new Risk Awareness Tool for Multinational Enterprises in Weak Governance Zones from the OECD is designed to help them.
