<p> As a sex expert (Ph.D.
in Human Sexuality, M.P.H. in Human Sexuality),
an author ("Different Loving","Come Hither",
others), a sex-and-relationships expert (Cosmo,
Maxim, GQ, Redbook, dozens of others), I have
accumulated thousands of insights into what
makes people tick sexually. I've worked with hundreds of individuals
on sex and relationships, first as a peer counselor
and, since 2000, as a licensed clinical sexologist (member,
American College of Sexologists). As a journalist
and author specializing in sex and relationships,
I've also fielded thousands of sex questions
over the years.
<p> From all that
I've learned, I believe that personal happiness
cannot come until an individual is at peace
with his or her sexual identity. In my practice,
I help clients to accept their own sexual truths
and teach them to make the best possible life
choices for themselves based on what they learn
about themselves.
<p> Whether you need help
building relationship skills, overcoming inhibitions,
dealing with a sexless marriage; are coping
with impotence, premature ejaculation, inability
to orgasm, obsessions/addictions, medical issues
or STDS; or have questions or concerns about gender issues,
BDSM, fetishism, bisexuality, swinging, or other unusual
sexual flavors, I will work with you to make
positive choices.
<p> I pride myself in being different from other therapists in several ways. I don't think it's enough to be a good clinician: without empathy and a personal investment in the client's success, therapy can drag on indefinitely without results. My goal is to make myself unnecessary to clients - to help them get to a place where they don't need to speak to me every week to keep their lives in balance. I am an advocate
for my clients' personal goals. I do not waste time and money on silence. I offer advice,
insights, and share my own experiences when
relevant. I view the therapy process as an opportunity
for a client to reveal him or herself completely
to someone who has both the skill and the commitment
to identify problem areas, ask the hard questions,
get to underlying truths, and to provide support
and comfort when clients feel vulnerable.
<p> My approach to human sexuality is enlightened, upbeat, and completely nonjudgmental. I blend therapeutic methodologies to tailor each course of therapy to the individual(s). I work hard to help you help you forge tangible positive changes in your life and to heal from the past. I am incredibly proud of the progress that my clients make. Nearly every client who has committed to a course of therapy with me has achieved
the goals they set and, more often, exceeded them. I love "graduating" clients.
<p> My practice is restricted
to adults, age 18 and over. Couples of all varieties are welcome.
<p> As both a licensed
clinical sexologist and a long-time kinky person,
I offer uniquely supportive, reality-based counseling to other kinky
people on the ins and outs of D&amp;S relationships
and SM/fetish fantasies.
<p> Sessions
must be paid for in full either before or at time of therapy.
<p> $130 for one hour
$75 for half an hour
<p> The fee pays for the amount of time I spend working with you. Whether you schedule in-office counseling or we work by telephone, whether counseling is for you alone or you and a partner, the same fee structure applies.
<p> EMERGENCY COUNSELING: I usually can schedule an appointment within 48 - 72 hours. If you absolutely must speak with me right away,
or outside of my regular office hours, the fee is $200 per hour. Exceptions granted only to clients already working with me.
<p> Cancellations: Requests
to reschedule or cancel must be received at least 12 hours in
advance of your next appointment or full payment for the session is
expected.
<p> Confidentiality: Your privacy is very important to
me. I take every measure possible to ensure that you are protected.
I do not share patient information unless you have explicitly
authorized me to do so. Confidentiality guaranteed to all clients.
<h> Sorry, but I do not offer free counseling, free advice or referrals to other therapists.
<p> Dr. Gloria G. Brame is one of
the world's foremost experts on SM/fetish sexuality. She has been cited in hundreds of
articles, books, and bibliographies; she is quoted regularly in magazines such as Cosmopolitan, Men's Health,
Maxim, and Redbook, and she has made hundreds of radio and tv appearances. Although she seldom makes personal appearances,
you can always find her on the Internet, at her website, her message boards,
and her blog, which is updated daily.
Excerpts from Gloria's CV
follow:
<p> Androgen Therapy for Women: A Critical Look at the Data and the Issues - The Endocrine SocietyEvolving Diagnosis and Management of Eajculatory Disorders: A Focus on Premature Ejaculation - PennState College of MedicineAndrogen Levels May Not Be Correlated with Female Sexual Function - MedscapeTestosterone Patch May Help Surgically Menopausal Women with Hypoactive Sexual Desire Disorder - Medscape
