<p> The following applications are supported by the various divisions of Information Technology @ Johns Hopkins. Please note that access to some of these applications is restricted to computers on the Johns Hopkins network and are not accessible off site.
<p> AllscriptsAllscripts is a medication management solution enabling physicians to create electronic prescriptions. The system provides physicians with important information at the point of prescribing, including formulary management, drug utilization reviews and other key indicators. Allscripts provides an automated physician charge entry tool which is used to capture charges at the point of care.
<p> Applicant Tracking SystemTracks demographics and status of job applicants BDM Pharmacy JHH The RxTFC system support the Inpatient and Outpatient Clinic areas supported by the five JHH Pharmacy satellites. The Investigational Drug Department uses the system to track certain studies. The software manages 10,000 daily doses and billing between $100-200,000/day. The Pharmacy staff of 180 has been trained in the application according to usage needs.
<p> Big BrotherBig Brother is a Web-based Systems and Network monitor. It consists of simple shell scripts which periodically monitor system conditions and network connectivity, Disk space, CPU, servers, and important processes can be tracked.
<p> Clinical Systems SecurityProvides access to the Electronic Patient Record based on the user’s clinical status.
<p> Content Management System (CMS)Enables multiple content creators within the organization to post their information quickly and directly to the Web, while maintaining consistent branding through customizable page templates.
<p> Cost Allocation System CostAllocates cost where it is incurred.
<p> Data Warehouse
<p> Decision Support System (DSS)Depository of patient data from EMTEK bedside units, used for research by the SICU staff.
<p> Document Management SystemCapture paper and/or electronic documents that need to be accessed by the front-end and the back-end.
<p> Electronic Bed BoardInformation management system at the patient bed-side
<p> Electronic Patient Record (EPR)JHH Allows clinicians to access documents describing a patient’s stay in the Hospital (i.e. Discharge Summaries, Operative Notes, Clinic Documents). It allows the physician to finalize (i.e. “sign”) a document. It allows for a clinician to navigate through the various result reporting (Lab and Rad) systems and to get a listing of patients, either through a floor census or through a list associates with the physician. This system is available to both JHH and to JH-Bayview, with specific coding for each institution. EPR Web allows access to EPR via the Web.
<p> Executive Information System (TSI)Cost accounting and decision support system that provides flexible budgeting, departmental performance, outcome management and contract analysis. Currently used by JHH and BMC.
<p> Hopkins One/Enterprise Resource Planning (Hopkins1)Integrates all departments and functions across JHU and JHHS into a single computer system that can serve all those different departments’ particular needs.
<p> Hospital Accounts Payable (AP)Centralized system for all payments for JHH and JHHS
<p> Hospital General Ledger (GL)Provides central financial information control throughout JHH and JHHSHorizon Homecare.
<p> Interface EngineA complex messaging standard, HL7, for the exchange of information between systems (patient admitted, lab result, radiology result, diet order ...). An interface engine is a sort of router - applications which have something to say send messages to the interface engine, it checks to see which other systems have "subscribed" to that specific content type of the message, and forwards a copy of the message to them. In the real world, different vendor's systems rarely agree on all aspects of the message formatting, so another major function of the interface engine is to reformat messages as needed for each recipient. Our HL7 interface engine environment spans JHH and JHBMC, includes at least 60 clinical and administrative systems, and delivers about 3,000,000 messages a week.
<p> JHSecure (VPN)JHSecure is a flexible IPSec based remote access Virtual Private Network (VPN) solution, which allows members of the Hopkins communities to access computer resources located at Hopkins from remote locations.
<p> JHUniverseSince its founding in February 1994, JHUniverse has served Johns Hopkins as the World Wide Web access point for information for prospective students, current students, faculty, staff, alumni, and the local, national and international communities.
<p> MSA Budget System BudgetProvides orderly zero based method of planning for each fiscal year.
<p> NutrinetDiet Order Entry system.
<p> Nutrition System VisionBayview used to enter the diet ordered for inpatients during stay.
<p> Oncology Information System (OCIS)Oncology IS systems.
<p> Operating Room Management System (ORMS)System that is to be implemented in the 87 operating rooms that comprise the General Operating Room area, Weinberg, Wilmer, Johns Hopkins Outpatient Center, Cardiovascular Diagnostic Lab, Obstetrics, Greenspring, Remote Anesthesia, and GI/Endoscopy. In addition, the application will be accessible to authorized users from remote and central scheduling offices both on and off campus, preoperative and postoperative areas, physician offices, nursing units, central supply departments, and family waiting areas
<p> Physicians Order Entry (POE)The Provider Order Entry System (POE), using Eclipsys Corporation’s Sunrise XA application, will be implemented throughout The Johns Hopkins Hospital’s (East Baltimore location) inpatient and outpatient facilities for clinicians to use for order entry functions. The system, initially to be implemented throughout the Department of Medicine units, will replace the existing Ordernet application. Subsequently, additional modules will be implemented to provide Clinical Documentation (including at the bedside), integration of the existing SCC application (connection to patient monitoring equipment), knowledge-based administration ensuring improved patient safety for drug administration via the use of bedside wireless bar-coding devices, and the implementation of an Emergency Room module to be used by the ED for patient tracking, documentation and administration.
<p> SMS Orders, SMS COR OrdernetOrderNet is a system that automates the placing of Laboratory, Radiology, Pharmacy, and other types of orders by physicians and other authorized prescribers.
<p> System 2000 Point of Care System EclypsisClinical Information System used in the Surgical Intensive Care Unit and the Cardiac Surgical Intensive Care Unit to monitor patient vital signs and laboratory data.
