<h> Evaluation Resources
<p> Longitudinal Survey
(PDF 200K)
The Youth Media Campaign Longitudinal Survey (YMCLS) is an annual
national telephone survey of young people, ages 9 to 13 years, and their
parents. Working with research corporation Westat, CDC designed the YMCLS to
measure the physical activity-related beliefs, attitudes and behaviors of youth
and their parents and to monitor youth exposure to the VERB campaign. Survey
results guide the campaign's evolution and provide important information about
the impact of the VERB campaign.
<p> A Computer-Assisted Telephone Interviewing
technique was used to administer the survey. The appearance and structure of the
survey reflects the software that is used for survey delivery. The interviewer
reads all of the text — questions and response options — except for those in all
capital letters. Words or phrases that are in all capital letters are
automatically displayed to the interviewer and indicate possible coding options.
Text in parentheses at the end of a response category indicates a skip pattern
(e.g., GO TO S2).
<p> We administered the first YMCLS (YMCLS 2002) during spring
2002 before the launch of the national VERB campaign, to provide the baseline
for future studies. The baseline YMCLS 2002 was administered to more than 3,000
9-13 year olds and their parents nationally.
<p> Continuous Tracking Survey
(PDF 265K).
The Continuous Tracking Survey is an ongoing survey that collects data from a
sample of 9-13 year olds to better understand their impressions of the campaign
and its messages. The survey provides campaign planners and brand strategists
with information about how widely the campaign is being seen and how it is being
understood. The appearance and format of the survey reflects the interview
structure that is used.
<h> Formative Research Reports
<p> Exploratory Research Reports
<p> New!Inspiring Children’s Physical Activity: Exploratory
Research with Parents(PDF 500K)This research helped understand factors that would influence parents to
encourage their child’s participation in physical activity and evaluate a range
of concepts for promoting physical activity. The report summarizes the results
of focus groups and in-home interviews conducted with mothers of 9- to
13-year-olds in 2003.
<p> Life’s First Great Crossroad(PDF 400K)Summarizes findings about the lives of today’s tweens, including the choices they make and how friends, family, and media help shape their behavior.
<p> Youth Media Campaign Summary of Interviews Regarding Kids with Disabilities(PDF 165K)Summarizes interviews conducted to learn most effective ways of including kids with disabilities in concept and message testing and in future campaign messages and events. Interviews, conducted from July through August 2002, were with individuals who have developed messages for people with disabilities or who are from organizations that promote physical activity among people with disabilities.
<p> VERB™ — A
Social Marketing Campaign to Increase Physical Activity Among Youth
VERB applies sophisticated commercial marketing techniques to address the public
health problem of physical inactivity of American children, using the social
marketing principles of product, price, place, and promotion. This article
describes how the principles of social marketing were applied to develop the
strategies and tactics of the VERB campaign.
<p> * Links to non-Federal organizations are provided
solely as a service to our users. Links do not constitute an endorsement of any
organization by CDC or the Federal Government, and none should be inferred. The
CDC is not responsible for the content of the individual organization Web pages
found at these links.
