<p> MARGARET
WARNER: Amb. Negroponte, welcome, and thanks for being with us.
<p> We
have heard roughly that there was a 60 percent turnout. What is the latest you
can tell us or what more do you know about the ethnic breakdown of the turnout,
ethnic and religious?
<p> AMB. JOHN NEGROPONTE: I think it's very difficult
to say at this time. The Independent Iraqi Electoral Commission has even pulled
back a bit from giving out any estimates, and I think we're going to have to wait
for the next day or two before we get some reliable turnout figures.
<p> But
clearly there's going to be important representation from the Kurdish areas, from
the Shiia groups, from the non-sectarian parties based here in Baghdad, and probably
slightly lesser representation in terms of the proportions on the part of the
Sunni people living in the so-called Sunni Triangle area.
<p> Constructing
a future
<p> MARGARET
WARNER: And give us your sense of how soon, just in practical terms, we'll actually
see this transitional national assembly sit down to meet?
<p> AMB. JOHN NEGROPONTE:
Well, of course, this is the first time that all this is happening, so none of
us have much of an experience base to refer back to, but the results are supposed
to be known in the next seven or ten days; I think then there's allowance for
perhaps challenges and so forth, so let's assume a couple of weeks until the results
are finally certified.
<p> And then it will take some time for the new assembly
to organize itself and its first act will be to pick a new presidency, which it
will have to select by a two-thirds vote, so that could take several weeks time.
<p> MARGARET
WARNER: Now of course an overriding issue is how to get the Sunnis to participate
in this political process that's about to unfold. How do you think that is going
to go?
<p> AMB. JOHN NEGROPONTE: Well, first it is an important issue. I wouldn't
call it "the" overriding issue, by any means. I think the overriding
issue is to move the democratic process in this country forward and yesterday
was a major advance in that direction.
<p> Now, as far as the involvement of
Sunni or any other groups, what we've heard from the political leaders who are
candidates in this election is that they want to take an inclusive approach towards
the future political life of this country.
<p> So, I think you're going to
see efforts to involve the Sunni in the new executive branch, through cabinet
positions and the like, and I think there is also the intention to try and involve
them in various ways in the drafting of a new constitution.
<p> Because under
the interim constitution of Iraq, any combination
of three provinces at the time of the referendum on the constitution can block
ratification. So, it's very much in the interest of all concerned if only to get
the constitution ratified to include representation from all groups.
<p> MARGARET
WARNER: Are you personally in touch with senior members of what's been called
the Sistani Slate, even though we know he was neither a candidate nor officially
endorsed, but the United Iraqi Alliance, the Shiite-dominated slate, that is expected
to get the greatest number of votes. I mean, do you have a personal reading of
what their intentions are?
<p> AMB. JOHN NEGROPONTE: Well, we at various levels
in our embassy, right down to our political reporting officers we have maintained
contact with all segments of the Iraqi political spectrum and of course some of
the members of the Sistani List are people who are either in the government -
such as the finance minister, for example, or the vice president -- and others
are individuals whom we knew when there was a - a governing council at the time
of the coalition provisional authority, so I would say that we're quite well acquainted
with representatives of that list and in fairly constant dialogue with them.
<p> Encouraging
participation
<p> MARGARET
WARNER: Now what about the Sunni leaders who urged a boycott? They have at least
given interviews in which they said they want to be part of the process, but what
more can you tell us about their intention?
<p> AMB. JOHN NEGROPONTE: Well, there
is no monolithic Sunni leadership to my understanding, which is perhaps one of
the issues that has been a complicating factor.
<p> But certainly we have maintained
contact with a variety of leaders from the Al-Anbar and Nineveh Provinces, which
is where many of these Sunnis reside.
<p> I have myself, for example, been
in occasional contact with the leader of the Iraqi Islamic Party, which is Sunni-dominated.
So, again, we have reached out to those groups and intend to continue to do so
in the weeks and months ahead.
<p> MARGARET WARNER: But do you think that -
first of all - the fact of yesterday's election, the relatively high turnout,
do you think this is going to from what you know make them feel more estranged
and alienated or, in fact, encourage them that, you know, this train is leaving
the station, to use an old political cliché, and they should get involved?
<p> AMB.
JOHN NEGROPONTE: Right. I think it's actually encouraging
them to want to get on the train. In fact, I think initially a number of them
were really trying to test the system to see if they could somehow or another
cause a delay in the elections.
<p> But when the inevitability of the elections
became apparent, I think we saw a number of these Sunni groups and certainly Sunni
voters want to participate more in the political process and for example members
of some of the Sunni parties that were not actively involved in the election have
already indicated to us that they would like in some way to be involved in the
drafting of the constitution.
<p> So rather than having a polarizing effect,
as some have suggested, I think this election could well, in the end, have a unifying
consequence.
<p> Formulating
an exit strategy
<p> MARGARET
WARNER: And what do you think - again the fact of yesterday's election and the
results means for the prospect of getting American troops out of Iraq?
<p> AMB.
JOHN NEGROPONTE: Well, first of all, it's certainly a very important step in terms
of the government and the people of Iraq taking on even greater ownership for
the management of their own affairs.
<p> So it's been a very, very important
advance towards political democracy. I think parallel to that one of our highest
priorities going forward is going to be to train and equip and try to help motivate
Iraqi armed forces, their military and their police forces, so that they can take
on an ever -- a greater responsibility for their own security.
<p> We'd like
to see a gradual shift from us being out on the lead on security issues to the
Iraqi forces being in the lead so that we can reduce our profile.
<p> MARGARET
WARNER: Some of these parties started this campaign by saying they wanted U.S.
troops out quickly. And that did seem to shift toward the end.
<p> Again, how
do you read their intentions - I'm talking now about for the United Iraqi Alliance,
perhaps a couple of the other major parties, in terms of whether they want to
at least start talking about a timetable for withdrawal?
<p> AMB. JOHN NEGROPONTE:
Well, a timetable was mentioned in some of the campaign documents of some of these
parties. But when we spoke to many of these political leaders, they clarified
that they didn't want to mean to suggest that coalition forces should leave the
country precipitously; in fact, many of them have said to us that they think that
would be dangerous and would leave a serious vacuum.
<p> On the other hand,
I think they feel, and I think on this point we agree with them, that it is important
that Iraqi forces themselves be enabled as rapidly as possible to take over the
primary responsibility for their security and ultimately to take over full responsibility
for the security situation in their own country.
<p> And I think that's an
objective that our two countries share in common.
<p> Defending
against attacks
<p> MARGARET
WARNER: I know you're not a military expert, but the interior minister was quoted
or the interim interior minister was quoted yesterday - he thought it would take
perhaps 18 months for the full Iraqi security forces to be able to handle things
on their own? Does that sound reasonable to you?
<p> AMB. JOHN NEGROPONTE: Well,
we've been reluctant to try and put a timetable on this to give a time estimate
simply because we don't want to create some kind of expectation that then subsequently
might lead to a disappointment.
<p> But what I can assure you is that we really
are working extremely hard on this issue of training, equipping, and motivating
of the Iraqi armed forces. And I would give to you as an example the extremely
good performance that they displayed yesterday in protecting these 5,300 polling
centers throughout the country.
<p> The Iraqi forces deserve a tremendous amount
of credit for the success of yesterday's election.
<p> MARGARET WARNER: Now
this 72-hour lockdown does end tomorrow. Are you braced for insurgent attacks?
<p> AMB.
JOHN NEGROPONTE: Well, one never knows exactly what to predict. Of course, there's
been a pattern, a fairly steady pattern of violence in recent weeks and months.
<p> Obviously,
we're doing our best to control and stabilize those situations and hopefully some
of the lessons learned from the experience of preparing for the elections will
be helpful going forward. But I'd be very wary of trying to predict for you exactly
what might happen in the next few days.
<p> I think that it is reasonable to
expect that this insurgency will continue for sometime to come and that the best
way to deal with it is to keep steadily working away at it through political action,
such as these elections, through training and equipping and motivating of their
armed forces and the economic reconstruction activities that we have underway.
<p> And I think through that combination of measures, I think that we over
time will be able to effectively deal with the insurgency that Iraq is facing.
