<p> Former Middletown school Superintendent Robert Sigler was busted last year for molesting a male student. He's still serving a 1ª- to five-year sentence. He gets to keep his pension of more than $21,000 a year. Warren Wagner, a former Middletown police detective, ripped off $20,000 worth of evidence money and served a year in a federal prison in 2002. He'll still get a pension shortly after his 55th birthday. They're not the only ones. New York is among the majority of states that leave pensions of public employees who commit serious offenses intact, whether the offense is related or unrelated to their jobs. That's good news for people like Ed Pilus, the former state police investigator sent to prison for faking fingerprints in at least two cases in Orange and Rockland counties. Pilus was released after serving almost two years in jail. They took his freedom, but they can't touch his pension. "It's unusual to me that someone can commit a crime while in public service and still be eligible for a pension," said William Darwak, the Ulster County administrator. "You'd think public employees would be held to a higher standard." Not in New York. The state's constitution doesn't allow pension benefits to be "diminished or impaired" for current public employees. Teachers and administrators are covered under a different system, the New York State Teachers' Retirement System, but the same rules apply. "There are no provisions in the statutes that would allow us to deny benefits to members," John Cardillo, the records access officer for the NYSTRS. That puts Seth Chase in the clear. Chase, a former teacher for the Golden Hill Elementary School, violated state Education Law by pinching and touching sixth-graders. He was fired in 1993 and has received more than $21,000 a year since; that's more than $231,000 in the past 11 years. Pensions are made up of a combination of employee contributions and tax dollars paid through the public employers, according to Dan Weiller, spokesman for the state Comptroller's Office. Investments also make up a chunk of the funds paid out in pensions. A person's pension amount, in most cases, is calculated from the salary of the last three years of employment as state employee. Pension forfeiture laws differ from state to state. Pennsylvania, for example, passed an act in 1978 that penalizes state employees who commit specific crimes through their office. The act requires not only the forfeiture of all pension and retirement benefits, except member contributions, but also any benefits for the member's beneficiaries and designated survivors. It even requires that the member contributions be used to pay fines and restitution associated with the conviction. The act applies to about 20 crimes ranging from extortion and theft to forgery and tampering with evidence. Oklahoma requires the forfeiture of pension benefits if "you are convicted of a felony or other crime which violates your oath of office." There aren't any states that make provisions for a law breaker whose offense doesn't pertain to his or her position. Same goes for those whose crimes are acknowledged but never prosecuted. That means Gary Pengel, a former Middletown police officer who admitted to molesting a little girl, still gets his $23,109 pension each year – all while serving a four- to 12-year prison term in the Collins Correctional Facility. Then there's former Monticello police Chief Michael Brennan and his pal, Sgt. Michael Bunce. These guys retired to avoid prosecution for running a side business of serving legal papers while on duty. They're both getting their annual pensions, $35,190 and $30,315 respectively. Pension experts argue pensions are "earned" benefits, meaning they shouldn't be rolled in as part of any sort of punishment. Changes to the state law that grants pensions to those convicted of crimes, most often involving official misconduct, have been proposed in the past, only to fall flat. But some New York city and state lawmakers are hoping to breath life into the issue again. In the past, Governor George Pataki voiced support for the idea, as did several other officials. Assemblywoman Nancy Calhoun said she'd consider a change to the law that hands out pensions to convicted criminals, but voiced reservations about the consequences of such a law. "You're taking away the security of the families as well," Calhoun said. "It would have to be looked at very carefully." Edward Farrell, the executive director of the New York State Conference of Mayors, said, "Conceptually, it's something we would likely support, but we'd have to look at how it would apply."
<p> Crime on the jobRobert Sigler Former Middletown School District superintendent Crime: sodomized a male teenage student with whom he had a long-standing relationship Status: serving a 1ª- to five-year prison sentence at Oneida Correctional Facility in Rome, N.Y.; eligible for parole in September Pension: likely to exceed $21,000 annually on retirement
<p> Edward Pilus Former New York State police investigator Crime: convicted in Rockland County of faking a fingerprint and perjury; pleaded guilty in Orange County to faking a fingerprint Status: released from Fishkill Correctional Facility in 1997 after serving almost two years Pension: eligible for retirement benefits in October, a month after his 55th birthday
<p> Patricia Weed Former Port Jervis Common Council member and DMV employee Crime: skimmed car sales tax money from the Port Jervis office of the Department of Motor Vehicles while working there Status: admitted to tampering with public records in 1988 (retired from DMV; resigned from council); completed five years of probation and served six weekends at the Orange County Jail (later commuted to her home in Port Jervis) Pension: $9,952.68 annually
<p> Warren Wagner Former Middletown police detective Crime: took $20,000 in evidence money from the police department Status: completed sentence of more than a year in federal prison in 2002 Pension: eligible for retirement benefits a month after his 55th birthday
<p> John Thompson Former Orange County undersheriff, current sergeant Accused of: orchestrating a plot to get Bigger on the Independence Party line by using forged petitions (could face prison time if convicted) Status: charges pending in Orange County Court Pension: if he completes one more year of service, he'll receive a full retirement allowance an estimated $29,000 annually, one half of his current $58,000 salary
<p> Seth Chase Former Golden Hill Elementary School teacher Offense: violated state education law by pinching and touching several 6th grade boys Status: suspended with pay in 1992; fired in 1993 Pension: $21,433.08 annually
<p> James Coscette Former Town of Wallkill police chief Offense: Civil Service hearing officer found him guilty of misconduct and incompetence Status: Fired December 2001; granted a new Civil Service hearing in January (hopes to get his job back) Pension: eligible for retirement benefits a month after his 55th birthday
<p> Crime committed outside of work
<p> Geoffrey Cabrera Former New York State police investigator Crime: forged access cards that allowed satellite TV users to get channels without paying for them Status: Still on probation after pleading guilty in December 2002 to three felonies Pension: $37,534.96 annually
<p> Gary Pengel Former Middletown police Officer Crime: admitted to molesting a girl younger than 14 in 1998 Status: serving a 4- to 12-year prison sentence at Collins Correctional Facility in Collins, N.Y.; denied parole in 2002; next parole hearing in September (will be a registered sex offender upon release) Pension: $23,109.18 annually
<p> Carl Colberg Retired New York State police commander Crime: Eight years after his retirement from state police, Colberg shot and killed his son, Christopher, 37, who was high on drugs and alcohol when he tried to attack Colberg and his wife Status: still on probation after pleading guilty December 1999 to felony criminally negligent homicide Pension: $42,943.56 annually
