
What do soft drinks companies do to reduce the amount of materials they use to contain their products?
The soft drinks industry is at the forefront of packaging innovations and is constantly looking at ways to reduce the amount of raw materials used in various types of packaging. This process of "lightweighting" means that not only are fewer materials being used, but savings are also being made in terms of the energy required for the manufacture and distribution of products. Today, the average can uses 35% less aluminium than 10 years ago, with steel cans containing 50% less steel and average PET plastic bottles containing 25% less PET.
What are the most popular types of packaging used to make soft drinks?
Drinks come in many different types of packaging. Why are certain products packaged in some forms and not others?
When manufacturers are considering packaging for a soft drink they need to consider the functions of packaging to ensure that the products reach the consumer in the best possible condition. The functions of packaging are to contain, protect, identify and sell the product bearing in mind the impact upon the environment and the costs involved.
Certain packaging is more suitable for certain types of product than others when you consider the above criteria. A summary of the various attributes and disadvantages of the main forms of packaging when looking at their functions is detailed here in PDF format .
What have been the most important developments in terms of packaging for the soft drinks industry?
There have been many varied developments in terms of packaging ranging from lightweighting of different packaging, to the introduction of new materials. For example the glass bottle is the traditional soft drinks container. Originally this was heavy and bottle shape was limited. Improvements in glass bottle design resulted in the introduction of the lightweight glass bottle.
Since then the industry has enjoyed the introduction of PVC and PET bottles, which enabled moulding of the bottles into various shapes, and the advent of the aseptic filled paper carton. In addition to this there has been the introduction of various closure systems to meet the needs of customers for the different forms of packaging.
