
Executive Summary (continued)
Summary of Treasury’s Pre-election Economic and Fiscal Forecasts
This summary sets out the economic and fiscal outlook for the next three years. A number of risks to the outlook may lead to a significant change in the growth path. Scenarios for higher and lower than forecast growth provide illustration.
The Economic Outlook
Steady export-led growth on the back of a positive world outlook.
Figure 1 – GDP growth
Sources: Statistics New Zealand, The Treasury
Despite contracting in the June 1999 quarter, the economy is set for solid expansion with quarterly growth expected to run somewhat above trend over the early part of the forecast period. Annual average growth is expected to be around 2½% in the year to March 2000, 3½% in the following two years, and 3% in the final year of the forecast period.
Conditions for growth remain positive. Stronger world demand and a more competitive exchange rate mean exports now count for a greater proportion of growth than at Budget time - although overall growth in the out years remains little changed.
Figure 2 – Trading partner growth
Sources: Consensus Forecasts Inc, The Treasury
Global growth prospects have improved through this year. Trading partner growth is now expected to be 3% in both 1999 and 2000. For 1999 this marks a doubling on the growth expected at the start of the year. Monetary conditions also remain stimulatory with low interest rates and a competitive exchange rate.
Robust growth in manufactured exports and tourism activity is expected to continue, underpinned by stronger global demand and a competitive exchange rate. The America’s Cup and the Sydney Olympics give an additional boost to the tourism sector. Commodity exporters are expected to shake off the effects of the droughts and gain from recovering world commodity prices.
Household spending is supported by steady employment and wage growth. Firms are expected to lift their demand for staff in line with a steadily growing economy. Employment growth peaks at an annual 2.7% in 2001. The unemployment rate falls to below 6% in 2001/02. Incomes receive an additional fillip in the March 2001 year from the planned tax cuts.
Figure 4 – Household debt and debt servicing
Sources: Statistics New Zealand, The Treasury
However, in the near term households feel the pressure of rising oil prices. Over the medium-term, increasing debt levels and rising debt servicing costs see spending growth slow and savings modestly rebuilt.
Modest tightening in monetary conditions.
The economy is likely to run into capacity constraints by around late 2000. However, a modest monetary tightening wards off inflationary pressures. This keeps the economy on a sustainable growth path.
Figure 5 – Consumers price index excluding credit services
Sources: Statistics New Zealand, The Treasury
Short-term interest rates are forecast to climb to 7.0% by the 2002 year and the exchange rate is expected to show a modest rise. The continuing large current account deficit is assumed to limit the rise in the exchange rate.
Rising oil prices are largely behind a spike in annual inflation to 2.7% in the year to March 2000. This is not, however, expected to lead to more sustained inflationary pressures.
Figure 6 – Current account
Sources: Statistics New Zealand, The Treasury
In the near term, the oil price rise and some one-off large imports, such as a frigate, and higher returns to foreign direct investment in New Zealand, see the current account deficit increase to 8.3% of GDP. That is expected to improve over the forecast horizon, falling to 5.8% of GDP by the end of the period.
The Fiscal Outlook
Operating balance grows with revenue growth outpacing expense growth.
Figure 7 – Operating balance
Source: The Treasury
The 1998/99 operating balance of $1.8 billion was boosted by large one-off items including gains on sale of assets. Excluding the one-off items, the operating balance was around $150 million.
the removal of the contingency expense provision for legal liabilities ($100 million a year).
These effects are largely offset by:
a downward revision to the estimated 1998/99 corporate tax base following higher than forecast overpayments of corporate tax. This impacts on all years.
tax rate reductions. By the end of the forecast period these are largely funded from the provision for future initiatives. The remainder lowers the operating balance by $245 million, $165 million and $85 million in 2000/01, 2001/02 and 2002/03 respectively.
Net worth forecasts, however, are stronger by between $650 million and $830 million over the forecast period largely reflecting the lower ACC outstanding claims liability valuation at 30 June 1999.
Net debt forecasts are lower by between $100 and $300 million. These improvements largely reflect a better starting position in 1998/99 than forecast in the Budget and stronger dividend flows from SOEs in 1999/2000.
Risks and Scenarios
The Central Forecast embodies a steady export-led expansion. As always there are risks and uncertainties surrounding this central track, raising the prospect of the economy following quite different growth paths to that presented here. Stronger world growth, for example, could see additional strength in our economy over the first part of the forecast period. The economy would hit capacity constraints sooner, producing a sharper cycle than forecast.
Figure 11 – Real GDP growth
Sources: Statistics New Zealand, The Treasury
But there are also risks around the sustainability of the current global recovery: most prominently, the possibility of a sharp correction in equity prices in the US. Slower world growth would undermine the strength of New Zealand’s recovery leading to a more modest growth path than envisaged here.
There are also risks associated with the domestic economy. The June quarter GDP outturn has raised the possibility of some near term weakness. Over the medium term it is by no means certain how consumers will react to higher debt.
If any of these circumstances were to develop differently than allowed for in the Central Forecast, they could produce outcomes where economic growth is stronger or weaker than embodied in the Central Forecast. This would have flow on effects for the fiscal forecasts.
Examples of a high growth (Stronger World Economy) scenario and a low growth (Weaker World and Household Sector) scenario help illustrate some of these risks.
Figure 12 – Operating balance
Source: The Treasury
Alternative economic scenarios lead to alternative fiscal outcomes, mainly because of differences in the outlook for nominal GDP, a key driver of tax revenue. The Stronger World Economy scenario leads to a stronger operating balance throughout the forecast period. In contrast, the Weaker World and Household Sector scenario sees the operating balance record modest deficits in the first two years of the forecast period, but return to surplus over the final two years.
