
Many books and articles have been written arguing that someone other than William Shakespeare, the glover's son from Stratford-upon-Avon, wrote the plays and poems published under his name. There exist sincere and intelligent people who believe there is strong evidence that Edward de Vere, Seventeenth Earl of Oxford, was the author of these plays and poems. Yet professional Shakespeare scholars -- those whose job it is to study, write, and teach about Shakespeare -- generally find Oxfordian claims to be groundless, often not even worth discussing.
Why is this? Oxfordians claim that these scholars are blinded to the evidence by a vested self-interest in preserving the authorship of "the Stratford Man," and some more extreme Oxfordians claim that there is an active conspiracy among orthodox scholars to suppress pro-Oxford evidence and keep it from the attention of the general public. The truth, however, is far more prosaic. Oxfordians are not taken seriously by the Shakespeare establishment because (with few exceptions) they do not follow basic standards of scholarship, and the "evidence" they present for their fantastic scenarios is either distorted, taken out of context, or flat-out false.
This web site is for the intelligent nonspecialist who doesn't know what to make of these challenges to Shakespeare's authorship. Oxfordian books can be deceptively convincing to a reader who is unaware of the relevant historical background and unused to the rhetorical tricks used by Oxfordians. Our aim is to provide context where needed, expose misinformation passed off by Oxfordians as fact, and in general show the nonspecialist reader why professional Shakespeare scholars have so little regard for Oxfordian claims. We know from experience that we are not likely to convince any Oxfordians to change their views, but we hope that other readers will find something of value here. We will be updating and adding new material as time permits, and we welcome any comments or suggestions.
Tom replies to Michael Brame and Galina Popova, who in Shakespeare's Fingerprints claimed that 17th Earl of Oxford wrote not only Shakespeare's works but also just about everything else written in the last half of the 16th Century.
In April 1999, Harper's magazine published a group of ten essays collectively entitled "The Ghost of Shakespeare." Five of the essays were by Oxfordians, arguing that the Earl of Oxford wrote the works of Shakespeare, while five were by Shakespeare scholars arguing that William Shakespeare was the author. David Kathman promptly wrote a letter to Harper's , pointing out some of the many factual errors and distortions in the five Oxfordian articles and outlining the major reasons why Shakespeare scholars do not take Oxfordians seriously. Harper's elected not to publish the letter, instead publishing a group of short and superficial responses which failed to address the main issues. However, we're posting David Kathman's letter here in order to provide a concise summary of the serious problems with Oxfordian arguments.
The following essays were posted to the newsgroup humanities.lit.authors.shakespeare, and are presented here in edited form. The original impetus for most of these essays was an Oxfordian article by Mark Anderson entitled "Shake-speare's Good Book," posted to the newsgroup by Mr. Anderson under the nom de net "E of O." (Interested readers can see this article at http://www.everreader.com/bible.htm --- but be sure to return here!) I posted a quick initial response to the article, to which Mr. Anderson replied with a further posting in which he made several more points, the substance of which should be clear from my responses. I wrote and posted the next eight essays, each of which deals with a specific Oxfordian claim, in response to both the initial posting and the follow-up. They are informal in tone, but I tried to make them as accurate and factual as possible. The next two essays were written later, as parts of longer essays in progress on Shakespeare's death and education. The last essay was written in response to Mark Alexander, one of the Oxfordian regulars on the newsgroup. Mark has always been a highly articulate and intelligent opponent, and he has often forced me to think through my own positions more thoroughly than I would otherwise have done. In this post, I address some of the broader issues involved in the Shakespeare authorship debate, and try to articulate the major reasons why I find the Oxfordian approach fundamentally flawed.
The most obvious evidence that William Shakespeare wrote the works attributed to him is that everyone at the time said he did: he was often praised in writing as a poet and playwright, he was named as the author of many of the works while he was alive, and seven years after his death the First Folio explicitly attributed the rest of the works to him. Oxfordians try to account for this evidence by claiming that the man from Stratford was actually "William Shaksper" (or "Shakspere"), a man whose name was spelled and pronounced differently from that of the great poet "William Shakespeare," and that nobody at the time would have thought to confuse the two. Needless to say, such claims bear little resemblance to reality. To see just how badly Oxfordians have misrepresented the name issue, read David Kathman's essay on the spelling and pronunciation of Shakespeare's name , accompanied by the complete lists (in original spelling) of all contemporary non-literary references and literary references to William Shakespeare.
Two assumptions are almost universally held by antistratfordians: the author of Shakespeare's plays must have been a well-educated aristocrat, and William Shakespeare of Stratford could not possibly have had the education or social connections to have been that author. To those who are familiar with Elizabethan society in general, and with William Shakespeare's life in particular, neither of these assumptions comes close to holding water. In this section we present two pairs of articles, the first pair dealing with the aristocrat/class issue, the second dealing with the education issue.
In this essay based on a series of posts from the humanities.lit.authors.shakespeare newsgroup, David Kathman addresses the common Oxfordian assumption that the author of Shakespeare's plays must have been an aristocrat who was intimate with the corridors of power. He points out that nobody in Shakespeare's day or for centuries afterward thought that the plays displayed an accurate knowledge of royal courts (in fact, the opposite was the case), and that modern social historians familiar with 16th-century court life have come to a similar conclusion.
Paired with Oxfordians' insistence that the author of Shakespeare's plays must have been an aristocrat is their insistence that he must have had lots of formal education. As usual, though, the antistratfordians are badly mistaken in some key elements of their arguments. In Shakespeare's Knowledge of Italy, the Classics, and the Law , David Kathman focuses on three areas where antistratfordians have often claimed that the plays exhibit knowledge beyond the ability of William Shakespeare of Stratford: Italy, the classics, and law. In each case, he responds directly to claims by Oxfordians, showing that they have greatly overestimated the extent of Shakespeare's knowledge and greatly underestimated the resources available to any intelligent Elizabethan who wished to learn about virtually any subject.
Since William Shakespeare did not have much formal education, he must have been a voracious reader on many subjects. Oxfordians like to ridicule this very reasonable inference; where, they ask, could Shakespeare have gotten the books he would have had to read? But in fact, Shakespeare was particularly well-positioned in this regard. Richard Field, who grew up down the street from Shakespeare and in very similar circumstances, became one of the leading publishers and booksellers in London. More importantly, he published many of the works his townsman Shakespeare relied on most heavily in composing his plays. Find out more about the connections between these celebrated sons of Stratford in David Kathman's Shakespeare and Richard Field .
One of the most common features of antistratfordian arguments is a claim that the death of William Shakespeare of Stratford went unnoticed in England, in supposed contrast to other prominent men of letters. But this Oxfordian claim, like so many others, is based on a distortion of the facts combined with an ignorance of the necessary context. Contrary to Oxfordian assertions, only socially prominent people such as noblemen were the subject of printed eulogies soon after they died; eulogies for poets and playwrights generally remained in manuscript, often for decades. In Shakespeare's Eulogies , David Kathman compares Shakespeare with the most prominent playwrights and poets of the day, and concludes that William Shakespeare was actually the best-memorialized English playwright until Ben Jonson more than 20 years later.
Antistratfordians since the mid-1800s have found something fishy about the famous Droeshout engraving that graces the title page of the First Folio. In 1995, Lillian Schwartz tried to put a scientific gloss on such speculations when she wrote an article for Scientific American which used computer modelling to suggest that the Droeshout portrait is actually of Queen Elizabeth. But as Terry Ross shows in this article , Schwartz's methods left a lot to be desired, and although her very tentative conclusions have been accepted as gospel by eager antistratfordians, a fresh look shows just how different Shakespeare and Elizabeth were.
More than half a century before Schwartz, Oxfordian Charles Wisner Barrell wrote another article for Scientific American , in which he attempted to use X-rays to show that the so-called "Ashbourne Portrait," often taken to be of Shakespeare, is actually a painted-over portrait of the Earl of Oxford. Yet even though Barrell's results were conclusively debunked more than 20 years ago, they're still accepted uncritically by many antistratfordians. Read David Kathman's brief article for the full story.
The Seventeenth Earl of Oxford was a recognized poet in his own day, and Oxfordians make the most of this fact in their attempts to prove that he actually wrote the works of Shakespeare. However, most Oxfordian work in this area involves highly selective use of evidence, and often reveals a distressing lack of knowledge about Elizabethan poetry in general. In this section we critically examine Oxford's surviving poetry and the conclusions Oxfordians have tried to draw from it.
Oxford was praised in print as a poet and playwright when he was alive, a fact which Oxfordians understandably try to use to their advantage. In doing so, though, they quote this praise selectively and present it out of context, leading unwary readers to a greatly inflated view of Oxford's reputation as a poet. Terry Ross's essay looks at Oxford's reputation in the actual context of the times, and shows that while Oxford's work had its admirers, nobody seems to have considered him a great poet or playwright.
If Oxford did indeed write the works of Shakespeare, why did he never acknowledge them? Oxfordians claim that the works contain dangerous political allegories, and that Oxford could not safely allow them to appear under his own name. Hence, he used the name "Shakespeare." To support this claim, Oxfordians cite George Puttenham's 1589 book, The Arte of English Poesie . However, a close examination of Puttenham's work shows that Oxfordians have relied on doctored evidence, and that Puttenham's actual words contradict the Oxfordian claim. Find out for yourself What Puttenham Really Said About Oxford , and why it matters. This case study of the Oxfordian misuse of evidence was written by Terry Ross; it appeared on the humanities.lit.authors.shakespeare newsgroup, and has been revised for this forum. Parts of the essay criticize the PBS Frontline program "The Shakespeare Mystery," and Frontline has issued a response to which Terry Ross has replied. We have made available the texts of the Response from Frontline -- and a Reply . We have also made the relevant portions of Puttenham's Arte of English Poesie available.
Oxfordians have consistently defended the quality of Oxford's poetry, arguing that it is not inconsistent with his later having written the Shakespeare canon. Joseph Sobran has recently gone further, claiming that the verbal parallels he has found constitute proof that the poetry of Oxford and Shakespeare were written by the same person. In Shakespeare, Oxford, and Verbal Parallels , David Kathman examines Sobran's claim and finds it seriously defective, reflecting ignorance of both attribution studies and Elizabethan poetry.
The Shakespeare Clinic, under the direction of Ward Elliott and Robert Valenza of Claremont-McKenna College in California, was a project which compared Shakespeare's poetry with the work of other contemporary poets by means of various objective tests. The goal was to see if any of the claimants' poetry matched the Bard's, and none did; furthermore, the Earl of Oxford was one of the poorest matches for Shakespeare out of all the poets tested. Read Elliott and Valenza's article on Oxford's candidacy, originally published in Notes and Queries .
Oxfordians from J. Thomas Looney onward have noted that some of the verse forms used by Oxford were also used by Shakespeare, and they have seized upon this coincidence as support for their theories. In The Verse Forms of Shakespeare and Oxford , Terry Ross looks at this issue in detail and shows how badly Oxfordians have distorted the facts in an attempt to exaggerate Oxford's similarity to Shakespeare and his role in the history of English poetry.
Irvin Leigh Matus's Shakespeare, In Fact (Continuum, 1994) is a good book-length examination of the authorship question, containing thorough demolitions of many Oxfordian claims. Even if you've read the book, check out Thomas A. Pendleton's review , which originally appeared in The Shakespeare Newsletter . Not only does Pendleton cogently summarize Matus's arguments, he also adds an excellent discussion of the vast scope of the conspiracy that would have been necessary to conceal Oxford's authorship of the Shakespeare plays.
In 1953, Dorothy Ogburn and Charlton Ogburn Sr. published This Star of England , a 1300-page Oxfordian tome which was a precursor to their son Charlton Jr.'s The Mysterious William Shakespeare thirty years later. Giles Dawson's review of this book for Shakespeare Quarterly provides an excellent summary of the shoddy scholarship and questionable methods which typify so much Oxfordian work.
Charlton Ogburn's book The Mysterious William Shakespeare is generally considered the most thorough exposition of the Oxfordian case; it is certainly one of the most passionately argued. However, Ogburn has a distressing tendency to brush aside facts which he finds inconvenient, and to invent or distort other "facts" to suit his purpose; he employs a blatant double standard in evaluating evidence which makes his thesis unfalsifiable. David Kathman's article Why I'm Not an Oxfordian , which originally appeared in The Elizabethan Review , looks in detail at some of the many problems with Ogburn's book and explains why academic Shakespeareans do not take Ogburn and his Oxfordian brethren seriously.
John Michell's Who Wrote Shakespeare? marks a rebirth of the "groupist" view of Shakespearean authorship. Michell thinks that just about everybody ever proposed as a candidate for authorship had his oar in the Avon. Bob Grumman's review describes Michell's approach, exposes his loose way with the evidence, and corrects several common antistratfordian misreadings.
In this essay , excerpted from a talk delivered at the Library of Congress, Irvin Matus, the author of Shakespeare IN FACT , discusses the common Oxfordian claim that Hamlet is actually a thinly veiled autobiography of Edward de Vere. Matus points out the weaknesses of the Oxfordian case, and also argues that the Oxfordian approach to the play seeks to diminish its power as a work of art, reducing a profound exploration of the deepest issues that concern us as people to a petty expression of pique.
Until the 1920s, Francis Bacon was the favorite candidate of those who doubted that Shakespeare wrote the plays and poems that have been attributed to him. The Oxford faction is today the more numerous, but there are still Baconians around. In The Code that Failed , Terry Ross examines the methods of one Baconian, Penn Leary, who claims that he has found cryptographical proof that Bacon wrote the works of Shakespeare. We have also made available Penn Leary's reply to the piece, as well as Hiawatha's Cryptographing , Terry Ross's response to him. In addition we have put up the texts of some UNIX and Perl scripts that were used to test Leary's methods.
The 1612 Funeral Elegy by W.S. has been in the news in recent years, as scholars and other interested readers argued whether it had been written by William Shakespeare; the current scholarly consensus is that the poem was probably written by John Ford. The case for Shakespeare's authorship was made in Donald Foster's 1989 book Elegy by W.S. , and in subsequent articles by Foster, Richard Abrams, and others. Time and space do not allow us to present the arguments over the poem's authorship here but we can provide the text of the Funeral Elegy itself. There was spirited debate over the elegy's authorship on the electronic Shakespeare conference SHAKSPER , and on the newsgroup humanities.lit.authors.Shakespeare . Much of the new evidence which convinced Foster that the Elegy was Shakespeare's comes from his lexical database SHAXICON. He wrote an article for the Summer 1995 Shakespeare Newsletter , which, while it did not specifically deal with the Elegy evidence, described the workings of SHAXICON in some detail. Also, read David Kathman's 1996 post to the humanities.lit.authors.shakespeare newsgroup, responding to early Oxfordian criticisms and clearing up some common misunderstandings about Foster's work on the Elegy, as well as a 2002 post on the matter.
A number of candidates were proposed as the real author of the Funeral Elegy , including George Chapman, an unnamed member of "a stable of elegy writers", a country parson, Simon Wastell, Sir William Strode, William Sclater, and the 17th Earl of Oxford . John Ford was first suggested in 1996 by Richard J. Kennedy on Shaksper, but it was not until 2002 that the case for Ford was generally considered to be stronger than the case for Shakespeare.
The principal arguments in favor of John Ford's authorship may be found in
Ward Elliott and Robert Valenza. "Smoking Guns, Silver Bullets: Could John Ford Have Written the Funeral Elegy?" Literary and Linguistic Computing 16:205-32 [2001].
Gilles D. Monsarrat " A Funeral Elegy: Ford, W.S., and Shakespeare" in The Review of English Studies 53:186-203 [May 2002]. Here is an abstract of Monsarrat's essay.
Brian Vickers, Counterfeiting Shakespeare: Evidence, Authorship and John Ford's "Funerall Elegye" . Here is the publisher's description of the book.
After Monsarrat's essay appeared, Foster and Abrams conceded that the case for Ford was now stronger than the case for Shakespeare.
Terry A. Gray's Mr. William Shakespeare and the Internet : in addition to the most comprehensive guide to Shakespearean resources on the internet, this indispensable site also includes many documents relating to Shakespeare that are available nowhere else on the web, such as an annotated version of Nicholas Rowe's 1709 biography .
Find more links to material by and about Shakespeare (and a great many other writers of the English Renaisance and 17th Century) at the Voice of the Shuttle
Since 1990, scholars and common readers have discussed the works and life of Shakespeare on the SHAKSPER mailing list, which is edited by Hardy M. Cook.
Oxford's Writings
Alan Nelson has put up a great deal of information about the 17th earl of Oxford including transcriptions of his letters and memoranda, an analysis of his spelling habits, and information about his trip to Italy. (Of related interest is our list of the annotations in Oxford's Bible.) In addition, Nelson has also made available new evidence of the relationship between Shakespeare and Sir George Buc , the Master of Revels from 1610 to 1622.
Joanne Ambrose believes Shakespeare's works were written by Edmund Campion .
Was Shakespeare Sicilian? See Antonio Casa's news account of Martino Iuvara's notion (would it surpise anyone to learn that Iuvara himself is Sicilian?). Iuvara's idea was considered newsworthy by the Times of London.
Peter Zenner thinks somebody named William Pierce was not only Shakespeare but also Edmund Spenser, John Donne, Christopher Marlowe, Francis Bacon, John Milton and many others.
Thanks to Seven Wonders for naming the SHAKESPEARE AUTHORSHIP Home Page the Site of the Day on April 23, 1996. This page is managed by David Kathman and Terry Ross . We thank all our visitors (we've been counting you), and we invite your comments.
