
JV1/JV3 Phase balance detector setpoint changed from .5V to 0V, or from +/-65deg. to +/-90deg. Voltage ref. caps on phase reference and power threshold inputs to comparators were changed from .005 to 1uf. Same was done on JV2/JV4 phase balance detector.
Goal: To make high density, high power EDA H-modes in a shape identical to that in ASDEX-Upgrade 'Type II ELM' discharges. This regime, which was only recently obtained on AUG, appears rather similar to that obtained on C-Mod when power is increased into EDA H-modes. At reduced powers, AUG sometimes sees a 'quasi-coherent' mode. We would like to see if the same behaviour is observed on the two machines with the same dimensionless parameters. We will obtain edge profiles both at threshold and in the steady H-mode period. AUG will then try to match the dimensionless parameters (nu*,beta, rho*) of these discharges.
Plan:
1) Obtain suitable shape, plasma parameters. Start with shape from shot 1010605016. Raise Ip to 1.0 MA, keep Bt at 5.3 T. L-mode nel=1.1e20 m-2. Once plasma is obtained, adjust shape to get a better match to AUG pulse 14265. This will involve increasing the inner gap and the radius of the x-point. RF should use these shots (3-4?) to tune and condition; For the last shot we would like a power ramp up to &gt;~2 MW to get the threshold power, and both L and H-mode tunes.
2) High power EDAs. Use square wave RF pulse at Ptot=2.5 MW using D and E at 80 MHz (more if we can get it). Measure pedestals, and fluctuations. Tune J-port at low power on these.
3) Add power from J-port (70 MHz), at maximum available power. This will be off-axis, which is non-optimal, but should help to raise pedestal temperature.
4) Increase density. A dimensionless match to the best AUG 'grassy ELM' shots would correspond to a line integrated density of 4.7e20, higher than our usual range. Increase starting density, and probably puff gas into EDA, to see how high we can get and still maintain a decent, steady H-mode (and couple enough power). ECE will probably be cut off, so good ETS data are essential. Again, use max available power without and with J-port.
4) Once the 'high density' H-mode has been characterized, use a slow power ramp to determine the corresponding threshold power and edge parameters.
Goal: To make high density, high power EDA H-modes in a shape identical to that in ASDEX-Upgrade 'Type II ELM' discharges. This regime, which was only recently obtained on AUG, appears rather similar to that obtained on C-Mod when power is increased into EDA H-modes. At reduced powers, AUG sometimes sees a 'quasi-coherent' mode. We would like to see if the same behaviour is observed on the two machines with the same dimensionless parameters. We will obtain edge profiles both at threshold and in the steady H-mode period. AUG will then try to match the dimensionless parameters (nu*,beta, rho*) of these discharges.
Once plasma is obtained, adjust shape to get a better match to AUG pulse 14265. This will involve increasing the inner gap and the radius of the x-point. RF should use these shots (3-4?) to tune and condition; For the last shot we would like a power ramp up to &gt;~2 MW to get the threshold power, and both L and H-mode tunes.
2) High power EDAs. Use square wave RF pulse at Ptot=2.5 MW using D and E at 80 MHz (more if we can get it). Measure pedestals, and fluctuations. Tune J-port at low power on these.
3) Add power from J-port (70 MHz), at maximum available power. This will be off-axis, which is non-optimal, but should help to raise pedestal temperature.
4) Increase density. A dimensionless match to the best AUG 'grassy ELM' shots would correspond to a line integrated density of 4.7e20, higher than our usual range. Increase starting density, and probably puff gas into EDA, to see how high we can get and still maintain a decent, steady H-mode (and couple enough power). ECE will probably be cut off, so good ETS data are essential. Again, use max available power without and with J-port.
4) Once the 'high density' H-mode has been characterized, use a slow power ramp to determine the corresponding threshold power and edge parameters.
Results:
We had limited success with this run, primarily due to poor machine conditions. This was probably a result of the recent vent, combined with the fact that we were running non-standard shapes, and thus putting power on different vessel surfaces. This led to impurity injections and, most critically, to a high hydrogen fraction (up to 20%) which limited the RF power absorption; H/D typically increases during each discharge, with Pabs decreasing.
The shape development part of the run went quite smoothly, and we did get shots which were a very close match to ASDEX Upgrade shapes (see physics operator summary for details of changes made). These had elongation close to our vertical stability limits (k~1.73), and were close to double null, which may have caused some interaction with upper vessel surfaces, and possibly also increased H-mode thresholds. The last AUG shaped shot, 1010719020, is a good example (Delta_u=0.34, delta_l= 0.47)
J-port was not available for the run after all, so we ran with typically 2.3 MW at 80 MHz from D and E port antennas. However, the low absorption means that the effective power was actually much lower, especially late in the pulse. We were unable to get any H-modes which had a steady, EDA character. Many were ELM-free, with strongly increasing impurities. (eg. shot 2, 14). Others, with lower power and higher radiation, had periodic behaviour typical of Type III ELMs; the pedestal was very cold (eg. shots 5,13). On shots 9 and 11 we ramped the RF up slowly to get threshold data, and found it was over the 2.3 MW injected); this is very high for these C-Mod conditions. Making the discharge more 'single null' had little effect (shot 12). Lowering the target density from nel= 0.9 to 0.7e20 m-2, while it had minimal effect on nebar at the RF onset (1.35-1.4e20m-3 in both cases), resulted in much lower neutral pressure anda threshold of Prf=1.13 MW (shot 13). This may be a good point for threshold comparison, though it was rather early in the ramp. Shot 14 had full RF power at this density, and resulted in ELM-free H-modes.
In an attempts to favour the EDA regime, Ip was lowered from 1.0 to 0.9 MA from shot 15 on. This raised q95 to 4.2. The rates of density rise did decrease slightly, though not an obvious EDA regime. Shot 16 had hints of a weak quasi-coherent mode on PCI. Shot 17 was colder and more ELMy. From shot 19 Bt was raised from 5.3 T to 5.6 T, raising q95 still further and a better match to the AUG target. This proved more difficult for the RF to match, for reasons not well understood at least by me, and power was not as steady as the rest of the day. The density did appear to be getting more steady, and QC modes characteristic of EDA were seen on PCI. Shot 21, about 0.75-0.8 secs, may be a good time for pedestal analysis. For shot 22, we went back to a standard shape, 800 kA shot to check we could get EDA there. We did, but it quickly cooled and reverted to Type III ELMs as H/D rose.
In summary, as expected, it was more difficult to get steady H-modes in the lower triangularity ASDEX-Upgrade shape. However, the poor machine conditions and low absorbed power undoubtedly were a major impediment, and there were indications we were getting close. There was insufficient power to try raising the density. Since the discharge development has been successfully completed, we would very much like to revisit this experiment on a day with better vessel conditions and all three RF antennas available.
Next shot try full RF power right away. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- 1010719014 hubbard SESSION_LEADER Jul 19 2001 1:21:51:980PM . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Got 2.3 MW, only a few minor trips. This time we had a series of more ELM-free H-modes, with accumulating impurities and radiation. Not a pretty sight. H/D is up to 0.18!
Shapes that are an excellent match to the scaled AUG shape were obtained (e.g. 21) and many were run. A comparison plot is in user10:[hutch.ps]aug_match.ps. They are close to double null; although a range of three sseps was run without obvious effect on the plasma character. No solid EDA H-modes were obtained. The H/D was high and rose strongly with RF in the early part of the day. Later on, the rises seemed less significant, but in all cases the H/D was above 10% during much of the RF pulse. Heating was clearly inefficient in many cases. In some others heating was ok even at high H/D.
The early part of the day was plagued with injections. Many appeared to be caused by visible sparks on the upper left corner of D-antenna. Some others were not RF induced. As the day wore on, these problems were less severe, and the plasma ran reasonably reliably.
These shapes are fairly close to stability limits. One or two VDEs were experienced. The chopper V was set to 150 to 200 instead of the usual 0 to lower the operating average current to a position closer to the center of its range. This adjustment seemed to be a significant improvement in that it allowed operation with an elongation that gave rise to noisy chopper behaviour without leading to saturations and subsequent VDE.
A manual gas puff during the RF did not significantly improve the operation, but also did not seem to give much impact on the RF coupling despite a x2 rise in main chamber neutral pressure.
It appears to be confirmed that the lower triangularity that is needed to match AUG makes it harder to get into EDA. The high H level was also definitely a handicap.
