
Who are Australians? Where have they come from? In which ways do we perceive our 'Australianess'? Would we all answer these questions in the same way? Food for thought? Chew your way through this WebQuest to satisfy your hunger.
The Question
The main question you will be asked to find an answer for is: 
What does it mean to be Australian?
Background Information
Have you already completed the Subject Sampler and the Knowledge Hunt? &nbsp; If not, you should do both of these now to get some background on Oz and its people. &nbsp; You could also check out some of these links:&nbsp;
Now that you have some overall background knowledge, it's time to return to the main question for this WebQuest. A questions this big and important is better answered when a few people are working on it at one time. Things work even better when a group of you decide to look at the question from different perspectives. This way team members can become experts on different aspects of the question and then come together to poll their learning. This is where team work pays off. So are you ready to divide and conquer this question?
Form groups of six.  Each group member must research and answer the question from a different perspective:  Vietnamese ; Aboriginal ; Greek ; Italian ;&nbsp; British/Irish ; New Zealand .&nbsp;&nbsp; Each group member will consider what it must be like to be a representative of our diverse population.&nbsp;
Group members must then re-form to answer the essential question:  WHAT DOES IT MEAN TO BE AUSTRALIAN?
Each group will present their thesis in the form of an oral presentation.  All six members must speak to the question for a period of no less than 3 minutes per speaker.  The team's oral presentation should be structured with an introduction, middle and conclusion ( want help? ) (which includes an answer to the question).&nbsp; &nbsp;
VIETNAMESE
Use the links below to find out more about the Vietnamese in Australia.  Think about how a Vietnamese-Australian may experience his/her 'Australianess' different to you.  Specifically, look for answers to the following questions:  &nbsp;
What is the dominant religious belief of the Vietnamese?  In what ways might religious belief affect the way the Vietnamese live their life?  Vietnamese Religions and Beliefs
Read this personal story.  Why did this 18 year old leave Vietnam?  Was his life endangered during his journey?  In what ways might this experience affect a Vietnamese refugee trying to settle in Australia? Personal Story
A Vietnamese, recently arrived in Australia, many face many challenges.  Belief systems vary and language barriers exist.  Imagine you are a Vietnamese person with a health problem and you have to visit an Australian doctor.  How can 'language differences' and 'belief systems' affect your visit? Vietnamese Cultural/Practical Experience
Read Mr Phi Lu's story .&nbsp; Why did he leave Vietnam?&nbsp; What hardships did he face on his journey?&nbsp; How long did it take to finally arrive in Australia?&nbsp; Think of 3 descriptive words to sum up how Mr Lu felt when he first sighted Australian soil.&nbsp;
Scroll down to the heading 'Settlers Born in Viet Nam and Hong Kong' to find out  when the Vietnamese arrived .&nbsp; Read further to find out why there was a sudden influx of immigrants.&nbsp;
Rumbaut claims that 'In the case of the Vietnamese, differing life experiences of the children growing up in the U.S. and their immigrant parents can turn the generational gap into a chasm'  What are some of the conditions which create this 'chasm'? The Biculturation of the Vietnamese Student
'Second generation' means that at least one  parent was not born in Australia and the 'second generation' (children) were born in Australia.  What percentage of second generation Greeks speak Greek in their home?  Why do you think so many second generation Greeks speaks Greek in their homes? Australian Social Trends
Are second generation Greeks likely to marry other Greeks?  What is the long-term affect of this trend?  Australian Social Trends
Although this article is humorous, it gives a good insight into how 'wogs' see themselves. The Wog Garden
Look into this site extensively, bearing in mind that it is 'tongue-in-cheek' Wog Life
ABORIGINES
Use the links below to learn more about aborigines in Australia.   Specifically, look for answers to the following questions: 
Read this page, focussing on the fundamental differences and misunderstandings between Aborigines and white settlers.  How many of these differences still exist?  Aborigines:&nbsp; The First Australians
 Look at the comparisons which are made in this article between aboriginal people and the rest of the Australian population.   What are your personal suggestions for how these statistics can be overturned?  Hutchenson Encyclopaedia
According to the author of this site, Ian Coller, aborigines have suffered a loss of 'a common humanity'.  Read the whole page.  How do you think that affects the way aboriginal people experience their 'Australianess'? Colonialism and Australian Aborigines
New Zealand has a diverse population, similar to Australia's.  True or False?  About NZ People
Clearly, the All Blacks are a significant part of New Zealand culture.  The question is:  Do you think it is justified for New Zealanders who live in Australia to still support the All Blacks?  Why/Why not? All Black Supporters' Club, Australia
Group Synthesis
Congratulations!  Each person  on your team has become an expert on one group of Australians. 
Guess what, gathering useful information isn't the same as truly understanding a topic. What experts in the field of learning suggest is that you now use that information in a new and challenging way. Then you'll really know about this topic. 
So with you team members all gathered together, carefully read and try answering the main question for this WebQuest. See where you all agree and where differences arise.  Use information, pictures, movies, facts, opinions, etc you explored to convince your teammates that your viewpoint is important and should be part of your team's answer to the question. Your WebQuest team should arrive at&nbsp; an answer that everyone on the team can live with.&nbsp;
Before your group presents its findings, ask yourselves these questions :
Have we worked co-operatively as a group?
Are we prepared to give our answer? (practise!)
Is our presentation structured?
Do we need to prepare any resources?
Are our speaking roles evenly distributed?
Is the correct question being addressed?
What have we learnt?
&nbsp;
Your group can now present its thesis in the form of an oral presentation.  All six members must speak to the question for a period of no less than 3 minutes per speaker.  The team's oral presentation should be structured with an introduction, middle and conclusion (which includes an answer to the question). 
Real World Feedback
Research contacts you can make for each of the six ethnic groups and write a letter to each of them asking  for an answer to the question:  What Does it Mean to be Australian?  Compare/contrast your conclusions with the replies.
Conclusion
At the beginning of this activity, you were asked about the truth. Did you discover it? Was there only one? Did everyone on your team think so? How did you answer the main question for this WebQuest? 
You deserve a lot of praise for all the work you've done. And so does your brain. You've sure put that gray stuff to the test. You gained background information, developed expertise in one particular area and got into some pretty expert analysis. At times, you must have felt confused with ideas spinning every which way. That's normal when you're building new mental connections. It's funny, with each link between what you already knew and the new learning going on, you broke another different kind of link, remember the intellectual slavery we spoke about earlier? You're free! How will you use these ideas and strategies as you continue to grow and learn? It's all up to you. Good luck. &nbsp;
