
Visual difficulties may range from a minor condition to total blindness, and Cambridge ESOL can supply enlarged and modified question papers for less serious difficulties, or brailled and modified question papers where these are required.
Exams
If you have visual difficulties, you can ask for Special Arrangements to be made so that you can take the following exams:
Key English Test (KET)
Preliminary English Test (PET)
First Certificate in English (FCE)
Certificate in Advanced English (CAE)
Certificate of Proficiency in English (CPE)
Business English Certificates (BEC)
International English Testing System (IELTS)
Young Learners English (YLE)
Certificates in English Language Skills (CELS)
Certificates in ESOL Skills for Life
Applications for Special Arrangements for other ESOL examinations not listed above may be possible.
Please tell us whether you need your papers in contracted or uncontracted Braille.
Please note:
the supervisor will also have a print version of each Braille paper
in some papers we arrange for the texts and the questions to be brailled in separate booklets.
We can send you past exam papers in Braille as practice material. Please ask us in good time, if you would like us to send you some past papers. Contact the ESOL Special Circumstances Unit (see the Further information section below).
5. Enlarged Question Papers
You can ask for two different kinds of enlarged question paper.
Type 1: We enlarge the standard question paper making no changes to the layout or material. You will receive A3 size question papers. (Usually 15.5 point)
Type 2: We change the question papers, removing 'visual' material which is not essential for answering the question. We then make large-print versions of the papers in A4 size. (Usually 18 point bold)
Note that we can also supply reduced print question papers.
6. Listening Tests
We make special arrangements for these tests.
Many of the questions in the listening tests ask candidates to make notes while they listen to a tape. If you are blind or have visual difficulties you may not be able to do this. We produce a special version of the listening test.
You will hear the same material and answer the same questions as other candidates.
However, the supervisor will:
stop the tape before each part of the test to allow you enough time to read the questions
stop the tape at certain points during each part to allow you enough time to write one or more answers
stop the tape after each part to allow you enough time to check your answers.
You should note that when the tape is paused during a part, you:
may not need to write an answer at all.
may need to write more than one answer.
7. Speaking Tests
For KET, PET, FCE, CAE, BEC or CELS, you must normally take the speaking test with a partner.
If you have visual difficulties, you can apply to:
have extra time if it takes you longer than usual to read any exam material or decide what you want to say
take the test with a partner who is not taking the examination
take the test without a partner (i.e. in the parts of the test which usually ask both candidates to talk to each other, you talk to the examiner instead). (Please note that this option is not available for BEC or CELS.)
use adapted visual material (see below).
Parts of the speaking test for some exams are visual - they use pictures taken from newspapers or magazines, for example.
If you are partially sighted we can supply enlarged copies of these pictures. If you find it difficult to use enlarged pictures we can supply enlarged print versions of written descriptions of the photographs. Talk to your centre about which would be best for you.
We can also supply material in Braille for blind candidates.
For example, in the Braille version of the FCE Speaking Test:
the examiner will spend a few minutes asking you to talk about yourself
you will then be given short written descriptions of two photographs in Braille. The examiner will ask you to compare and contrast the situations in the descriptions and give your opinion about them. You will have about a minute to do this
finally you will be asked to take part in various conversational activities using brailled notes or information.
8. Having a 'reader' or an amanuensis.
A reader is a person who will read the questions out to you. Note that the reader will not explain the questions to you or offer any advice. A reader is not usually allowed to read out the texts in a Reading Test.
An amanuensis is a person who will write down your answers. If you would like an amanuensis to write down your answers, you should note that:
you will be asked to spell certain words
you must also indicate punctuation.
The amanuensis will also read your answers back to you if you wish.
Please contact your centre if you would like to know more about having a reader or an amanuensis.
We recommend that you practise with a reader/amanuensis before the examination. For example, you should make sure that you can spell out the letters of the alphabet.
Important notes
Please note that it may not always be possible for a Braille version of a particular examination to be prepared.
British Standard Braille is moving over towards the optional use of capital letters. Skills for Life Level 1 & 2 Reading may specifically test the use of capitals. Capitals will therefore be included in Braille versions of Skills for Life Reading in those tasks which test their use, and candidates who are preparing to take a Braille version of Skills for Life should be made aware of this. Capitals will not be included in texts or questions for other tasks for the time being.
Cambridge ESOL reserves the right not to approve applications for Special Arrangements. No application will be considered unless it has the unreserved support of the centre.
