
Special prices for our special customers! Additional discounts just recently added on all unique products below. Free Ground Shipping on many (not all) items on these three sales pages only (Inside the Continental US only).
You may call us toll free at 1-877-442-6773 if your prefer not to order online. All items on these three sales pages ship from Denver, CO. All of the below items are in-stock and ready to ship within two business days via Ground Delivery Service (Extra charges will apply for any required Air Delivery).
New percentage discounts just added. Remember, many items below with Free Shipping!
Check back frequently to find clearance sale prices on weathervanes, cupolas, garden structures, garden accessories, furniture and outdoor lighting. Many of these items are first-come first-served, and the discounts only apply to stock on hand. Thank you.
Cranes Fountain One Pair Left On Sale Now!
This pair of Cranes Fountain makes a lovely statement placed anywhere near a pool or pond. Connect a water tube to a fitting on each cast brass base and then connect to a water source. Of course you do not have to use them as fountain statues to enjoy this pair's beauty!
48.75"H x 20"W x 12"D & 40"H x 20"W x 12"D (pump not included)
Item #: 30605
Another stunning combination of burnished and patinaed brass with a marble base will make this unique coffee/cocktail table (above left) the focal point of your room. Expertly crafted, this School of Dolphins supports an oval 42-inch glass tabletop, with one dolphin piercing the glass top! We are offering free shipping on this beautiful table too for a limited time only. Complimentary side table is available too, it can be seen here . 42"W x 24"D x 21"H
Item #: BP-30306
Canterbury Copper Pilaster Lantern
What a beautiful accent to mount to a brick or stone column or pilaster to welcome your guests and to cast a warm glow over your landscape and outdoor decor! Hardwired for 110V with 75W max. bulb (not included). Soft verdigris patina finish only. Only two remaining at special price!
Size: 15"H x 7.5" Hexagon Base
Item #: LLCantp
Please Note: Larger sizes available by special order only. Wall mount lanterns and hanging lanterns available too by special order only. Please call or e-mail for pricing.
Branches Table with Glass Top Beautiful new introduction, copper coffee table with a "branches" design and bottom shelf. The 3/4"D glass tabletop makes this coffee table a very elegant work of art for any room. Ample top that measures 40" x 20" x .75". Table is 17.5"H to glass top. Exquisite and won't last long! Substantial savings with % off on one table only! Item #Tbranches
Proudly fabricated in AZ by the artist, this ample size copper plated steel console table will be the hit in your home!
The copper has a hand rubbed patina that is similar to a medium, slightly aged penny and then three coats of lacquer applied.
The top of the table, under the 3/8"D glass, is a cut out in solid metal sheet of an elk and mountain lion in a natural outdoor setting beneath a tree (shown below left). Table measures 52"L x 16"D x 29"H.
Item # SCmconsole
Proudly made in America (right here in Colorado) with a Lifetime Guarantee! Grandfather's Garden Hose Nozzles are 100% brass and are made to satisfy the most demanding customers -- professional wildland firefighters and the Forest Service who need products they can rely on. No more big box retailers' hose nozzles that have to be constantly replaced, if this hose nozzle ever breaks, send it back &amp; we will replace it at no charge! This all brass hose nozzle adjusts from a fine mist to a strong stream and can handle up to a 250 pound water pressure. The thread design and superior seal make connection to your garden hose easy and secure! M easures 4"L Lifetime Guarantee!
Use Copper Yard Art to add a little whimsy to that special place in your garden! Each handcrafted piece comes with a 24"H black aluminum stake for easy insertion into the ground (as shown on the dragonfly above, top left). Choose from a verdigris dragonfly (9"H x 9.5"W, figure only), a praying mantis (5.5"H x 9"L x 4"D), a yellow jacket (4"H x 5"L), a lady bug (6"H x 5.5"W), a snail (3.25"H x 5"L), a butterfly (6.5"H x 7"W), a bee (3"H x 9"L x 4"W) or an ant (7.5"H x 5"W). Indicate selection on ordering page. Only a few models left of each. Another style is shown on page 3 of these Clearance Pages.
The Flowering Copper Vine with Bronze Buttercup is the most versatile landscape light that there is (not to mention its beauty!). It comes with 5-feet of soft tube and 5 clip on copper leaves so that you can arrange the "vine" to suit your chosen location.
 This low voltage 12 watt light can be twisted around a tree trunk, as shown, or around one of the support posts to our trellises or arbors to direct its light to highlight a special spot in your garden landscape or one of our flagstone or copper signs. Absolutely Beautiful!
12V with 12W bulb, Buttercup is 3"W x 3.5"L x 5' of copper tube
Flowering Copper Vine with Buttercup © Copyright
#LLVineb 25"H
 
Wall Mount Double Calla Light
SIZE: 18"H x 14"W x 9"D
A Beautiful and unusual lighting accent!
Decorative cast brass of leaf and vines with a burnished patina (bulbs not included). Requires two 15W candelabra bulbs. Comes ready to wire into box.
#sc3812
Decorative Copper Windowsill Trays
SIZES AVAILABLE: 18.5"L x 5.5"W or 12.5"L x 4.75"W
A functional decorative accent for your home. Great and useful with pebbles and water in the bottom to provide extra humidity for your orchids! (candles/plants not included).
Solid Brass Dragonfly Coasters Your tables will thank you for using these beautiful drink coasters! Keep the moisture off of your fine furniture in style.
3.5" Square, Nonskid base BP25690 Set of Four
Solid Brass Leaf Coasters You will love these leaf coasters as a decorative accessory! Keep the moisture off of your fine furniture too.
3.5" Square, Nonskid base 30053 Set of Four
Our Frog Hose Guides are incredibly lifelike and the figures are solid brass on top of an aluminum stake for easy insertion into the ground. Protect your flower beds in style while you are watering!
The Frog Hose Guide measures 22"H x 9"W. There are only three remaining that are on sale.
 
Item #: 30336
Large Copper Bowls are just hard to find. Use it as a focal point in the garden, plant it with your favorite annuals or great for use as part of a fountain! We can even cut a spillway into this bowl or hammer this bowl to suit your particular needs. Click our Fountains page for additional ideas. The copper will develop a rich natural patina over time. Beautifully drop forged and measures 40"W x 7"D Item #: cbowl40
Two Dolphins frolic around the base of this beautiful Tabletop Mirror. One side is normal magnification, other side is 2X. Brass and marble base. 15.75"H
This Branches Fireplace Scene is a beautiful work of art to place in front of your fireplace in winter or summer. It can also be used as a wall hanging
Each individually hand-crafted, so no two are exactly alike. Fabricated of brass and iron and includes glass votive candleholders. Candles not included. Approximately 30"H x 35"W Item #: 30194
The Gaudette Trellis is based on the porch detailing of a 1920s' Craftsman bungalow. With its classic detailing it helps integrate the landscaping with the homes' architecture. However, this trellis would be the perfect landscape accent for any style of home.
The Gaudette is 5.5-foot tall x 40 inches wide Only One left at this price.
Hand Blown Glass Flowers by Artist Donna Gordon Light up any room and don't worry about these beautiful flowers wilting! Each piece is a work of art. Choose color(s) on ordering page. Only one left of each color, order early these will be gone fast.
 
4-5"W x 20"H
 
Burnished Brass Pineapple Mini Lamp Welcome all your guests with this symbol of hospitality used throughout America. Accepts up to a 15W candelabra socket bulb (included). Great night light.
Item # 30562
5"W x 5"D x 11.5"H
COPPER WALL CLOCK
Fabricated from cast aluminum with a large copper face this large clock is ideal for outdoor use. Battery operated. (Only one remaining)
12" Diameter x 3"D
Item #01841
COPPER WALL THERMOMETER
Fabricated from cast aluminum with a large copper face this large thermometer is ideal too for outdoor use. Battery operated. (Only one remaining)
As a web site which is concerned with your security when shopping online, GI Designs invites you to click on the "Lock" on your browser when you place your order to check our SSL Certificate issued from Thawte. Thank you!
Now Accepting PayPal as a Payment Option for Your Shopping Convenience!
Please contact us at Cs@gidesigns.net with any of your questions or comments. If you would feel more comfortable talking with a person concerning an order, please e-mail us with your phone number and a convenient time to return your call. We will return your call as soon as we can.
Call between the hours of: 9:00 AM - 5:00 PM Mountain Time Monday through Friday, Saturday we are open from 10:00 AM - 4:00 PM Mountain Time. Closed Sunday. Please feel free to leave a message on Sundays or at any time we are on the phone with another client and we will return your call just as soon as possible. Thank you.
