
Why should I pursue my Master of Corporate Biotechnology degree?
The Master of Corporate Biotechnology has been developed to provide professional development within a relevant, up-to-date post-graduate qualification that combines the science, business, Information Technology and law components of biotechnology that are vital to the development and commercialization of biotechnology research.
This course has been structured to suit applicants working in both the business sector of the biotechnology industry (with a previous business, law or Information Technology degree) and those working in the research sector of the biotechnology industry (with a previous biotechnology or biological sciences degree).
How long does it take?
There is one intake per year, in February, and the program normally takes three years of part-time study. Each year is divided into two semesters, Winter (February to June) and Summer (July to November), and you may take a maximum of two courses per semester. You may also take one course per semester, completing the degree in 6 years.
Start Date
Winter Session: February 2006
Admission Requirements and Credit
Business/Law/IT graduate stream : Business, Law or IT Bachelor degree and a minimum of 2 years current professional experience. Graduates in Business/Law/IT do not have the option of entering the Biotechnology graduate stream, nor are they eligible for credits based solely on a prior undergraduate Business, Law or IT degree.
OR
Biotechnology graduate stream : Biotechnology or equivalent Medical/Biological Science Bachelor degree and a minimum of 2 years relevant employment. Graduates in Biological Sciences do not have the option of entering the Business, Law or IT graduate stream, nor are they eligible for credits based solely on a prior undergraduate Biotechnology/Biological Science degree
Once accepted, simply submit payment for your first semester courses to Charles Sturt University. Course material will be sent to you in time for the start of the semester.
Payment options will be outlined in your letter of offer. After reviewing your application, CSU will inform you if you have been accepted into the program.
What will I learn?
The Master of Corporate Biotechnology caters to candidates with varied backgrounds by utilizing alternative strands in the first year of the program. Those candidates with a law, IT or business background will gain a good understanding of the science behind biotechnology while those candidates with a previous degree in biotechnology (or equivalent) will use the first year to gain a solid understanding of relevant issues in law, business and information technology. Both cohorts will merge for the remaining subjects.
Research projects can be specifically tailored to the needs of each candidate with projects available in each of the key areas of science, bioinformatics, business, law and intellectual property. The course pattern for each cohort is shown below.
