
You know what we think -- now we want to hear what you think! That's why, at the end of every new story and blog post, we've provided space for your comments. The comments area is a shared community space for readers to contribute feedback, ideas and information. You're invited to drop in anytime and give us an earful. Be on the lookout for comments from writers and editors as they respond and contribute to the discussion!
Check out the 40 stories and blog posts most commented on in the past week.
Matt Taibbi, RollingStone.com. December 20, 2006. [ 199 total comments ] The Left Behind video game encourages you to celebrate the birth of Jesus by wasting dozens of people at a time, using a variety of Christ-sanctioned weapons.
Chris Hedges, The Nation. December 23, 2006. [ 190 total comments ] There's nothing outrageous or bigoted about Jimmy Carter's book arguing that Palestinians are victims of apartheid, as critics are claiming. If anything, Carter mutes his case.
Joshua Holland, AlterNet. December 23, 2006. [ 140 total comments ] Israel may well find itself at war with Syria and Hezbollah in the coming months, and the American foreign policy establishment needs to let go of its long-standing biases to prevent these conflicts.
Robert Weitzel, Smirking Chimp. December 21, 2006. [ 117 total comments ] In his position as the Alpha Male, leader-of-the-pack, Bush may represent the vanguard of our species' future evolutionary development.
Marc Mauer, TomPaine.com. December 22, 2006. [ 78 total comments ] The United States has now become the world leader in its rate of incarceration, locking up its citizens at 5-8 times the rate of other industrialized nations.
Marjorie Kelly, Tellus Institute. December 21, 2006. [ 70 total comments ] The U.S. media might have missed the significance of the Stern Review on the Economics of Climate Change, but the public shouldn't miss the message: It's about hope.
Larisa Alexandrovna, AlterNet. December 22, 2006. [ 54 total comments ] It's becoming increasingly clear that the US is in a holding pattern with regard to Iraq, stuck on stall while our soldiers and more Iraqis die.
Charlie Cray, Phil Mattera, TomPaine.com. December 22, 2006. [ 48 total comments ] After years of lax congressional oversight, most Americans think corporations wield too much power. Only by restoring the balance between government and the private sector can corporate America regain the public's trust.
Molly M. Ginty, Women's eNews. December 20, 2006. [ 28 total comments ] Across the U.S., female animals exposed to toxic chemicals are suffering from a flurry of health problems, from shrunken ovaries to spontaneous abortions. What does this mean for female humans?
Earl Ofari Hutchinson, AlterNet. December 21, 2006. [ 28 total comments ] Civil rights leaders unfortunately know all too well the appropriate community response when whites are responsible for hate crimes against blacks, but what about when the tables are turned?
Jeffrey Klein, Paolo Pontoniere, New America MediaAlterNet: War on Iraq. December 21, 2006. [ 23 total comments ] Saudi Arabia, fearful of a nuclear Iran and a Shiite Iraq, is taking steps to influence U.S. policy in Iraq. The kingdom may also be building its own nuclear program.
Robert Parry, Consortium News. December 26, 2006. [ 12 total comments ] Intelligence sources say President Bush -- along with Israel's Ehud Olmert and the UK's Tony Blair -- are weighing the possibility of Israeli-led attacks on Syria and Iran in early 2007, with the United States providing logistical back-up.
Jeanine Plant, AlterNetAlterNet: Movie Mix. December 23, 2006. [ 11 total comments ] Despite its ripped-from-the-headlines feel, Home of the Brave , the new film about Iraq war veterans who have trouble readjusting to life at home, is Hollywood all the way.
