
"Neneong and Ian in Kawama!!!!" &nbsp; Neneong , Stoke on Trent Well, like a lot of people, I was worried when I read the reviews.DON'T PANIC, KAWAMA IS FAB!!!!!!Room great, location great, pool great, beach great, nightclub great. Food is same old, same old as...
Oct 4, 2006
"Best holiday ever" &nbsp; harmera , Wales This was the best holiday ever, the staff were brilliant and did everything they could to help. the rooms were clean and comfortable, the food was at time a little strange, but bear in mind that they had...
"One holiday i will never forget" &nbsp; shekat , ontario I was on hoilday with a friend at the resort for 7 days. I was not empress at all. The day we arrived we were at Hotel Club Kawama At noon. They had 2 girls on the front desk and 3 bus's all came in at...
Aug 18, 2006
"give it a try" &nbsp; katiejayne , england Went not expecting what we got, beautiful hotel, very friendly staff and a view! Felt very safe as there were security present 24hrs a day. The food was quite plain but good,go early for a good choice....
Jun 20, 2006
"I will be back!" &nbsp; A TripAdvisor Member , Edmonton, Alberta, Canada I got back from Club Kawama on June 5th. I had tears in my eyes when I left!The people were incredibly friendly, my room was gorgeous and right next to the pool. All the staff would smile and say hi as...
May 27, 2006
"great place,best people" &nbsp; fredrikfalcon , england just back from long flight,must say kawama is great.maybe needs the decor tiding up but the staff are excellent, service good and beach breathtaking.i must disagree about the food,after five days eating...
May 3, 2006
"We Love Kawama" &nbsp; callmecraazy , Kitchener, Ontario Hi, my sister and I spent a week at Club Kawama and loved every minuite of it. We can't understand how anyone would have anything bad to say about this resort.The food was good, always lots of selection,...
May 1, 2006
"great vacation despite the front desk staff" &nbsp; POP_Princess , Ottawa, ON, Canada I just returned from a week stay at the Hotel Club Kawama in Varadero Cuba. Although quite nervous before the trip due to many negative reviews I decided to go to this hotel with an open mind. The...
Apr 28, 2006
"prisoner cell block h" &nbsp; A TripAdvisor Member , ENGLAND Just arrived back from 2 weeks of what can only be described as the worst holiday hotel on planet earth.Miserable staff,Cold food,drink shortage,shabby accomadation,cockroach fly &amp; mosquito infested &amp;...
